This is Jockel podcast number 198, but David Burke and me, Jockel Willick, good evening,
David.
Good evening.
And David is back on the podcast because Echo is, well, he's still on vacation.
And we are continuing the thread that we did on the last podcast with Andrew Paul,
the last podcast we discussed day, German Field Manual called Trooping Fierong, which means
leading troops.
And I mentioned the American version of that document.
It's called Field Service Regulations FM 100, 5.
And the one, and this is a little bit, it's not that important, but I'm going to bring
it up later.
That we're going to talk about was published in 1941, so prior to the entry of us into World
War II.
And they plagiarized heavily from the Trooping Fierong.
But there are enough differences in here that it does merit.
It's on review.
So we're going to look at it.
We're going to explore leadership once again, Dave.
Are you ready?
I'm ready.
All right.
Let's go to Field Service Regulations FM 100, 5.
There's actually a little intro section in here.
And it goes like this, preface on 22 May 1941, the War Department published a new version
of FM 105 operations.
This manual superseded the superseded attempt of 1939 version, which I actually have not
seen.
I'll have to dig that one up.
The most recent official edition had been the Field Service Regulations dated 1923.
The Army of 1941 desperately needed an up-to-date, doctrinal guidance.
The world was already engulfed in war.
And the United States had begun to mobilize.
Thus the Army was eight times larger than it had been in 1939.
That's two years.
1939 to 1941.
You want to talk, you know, you and I work with companies now.
And we're growing a lot.
We're in a growth phase.
Eight times bigger in two years.
And we're not talking about a small organ.
It's one thing to go from, you know, two people to 16.
Hey, we're eight times bigger.
But to go from whatever, a few hundred thousand to over a million, that's serious growth.
So continuing more over it, it also embarked on a modernization program that affected
virtually every facet of military activity.
The edition, the 1941 edition of FM-100, Tac-5 encapsulates the state of Army doctrine on the
eve of America's entry into World War II.
The 1941 version of FM-100, Tac-5, has long been recognized as a classic piece of doctrine
writing.
Remarkable for its clarity of concept and prose.
Now come on folks, we can't give you that much credit.
We just read the German version.
And we know that we know we're getting this from.
So that's a little bit of a bold statement there coming from this preface.
It also has valuable historical, it is also a valuable historical artifact preserving
as it does the doctrinal thought of the Army at a critical juncture in history.
And this is signed by Christopher R. Gable PhD historian, combat studies institute, U.S. Army
command and general staff calls.
Did you go to work college?
No, I went to Johns Hopkins instead.
Oh wait, what do they call you?
Oh that's right, you deal day.
Check.
And what did you study there?
International public policy.
How long was it?
How long was the school?
About 18 months.
The academic fellowship, so it was basically civilian.
Got a master's degree and started working on a second degree while I was there.
What was the second degree that you started working on?
MBA.
Okay.
The policy, what were you doing?
Yeah, so really what that was about is the reason why the Marine Corps sent me to do that
is to, after that was going to go to the Joint Staff to help formulate how we relate
to other countries and the security that goes along with that and the relationships we have
with other countries was actually pretty important.
A lot of those lessons came from World War II and this isolationist mindset didn't help
us in the beginning and how to form policy that helps the country create security around
the world really.
Who are the professors?
Probably the most prominent professor there was Elliott Cohen.
He's now the dean at SICE, but he ran the strategic studies department that I was there
and then John McLaughlin, who was the former acting director of the CIA.
So some pretty amazing guys there, some pretty great access to some really smart folks.
It spent their careers in international arena.
Yeah, that's kind of a...
Pretty legit.
So no, I didn't go to work, I'll just...
Good deal Dave coming in hot.
All right.
Now I will say that the Troopin Fierong has a much better kickoff, much better kickoff than
the... than this one than the field surface regulations, but we're going to jump in.
Here's where I'm going to pick it up.
The... the... in fact, this one is so unappic, I'm not reading it.
Ah, well, now I kind of have to.
It starts off with with just kind of a blah, blah.
Field surface regulations.
It's just... yeah.
Here's what it says.
Field FM 100-tack five field surface regulations, operations, is published for the information
and guidance of all concern.
It contains the doctrines of leading troops in combat and tactics of the combined arms and
constitutes the basis of instruction of all arms and services for field surface.
Okay, that's not bad.
This is actually decent.
While the fundamental doctrines of combat operations are neither numerous nor complex,
their application is sometimes difficult.
I think we call that simple, not easy.
That is simple, not easy.
100% knowledge of these doctrines and experience in the application provide all commanders
of firm basis of action in a particular situation.
So let's think about this.
This reminds me of what Mattis says.
Mattis is like, I'm not going to get surprised on the battlefield because I've read
something close to it.
I've read something close to it.
Something I can relate to.
So knowledge of these doctrines and experience in their application provide all commanders
a firm basis for action in a particular situation.
This knowledge and experience enable the commander to utilize the flexible organization
with which he is provided to group his forces in detasque units most suitable for the
accomplishment of his mission.
Now we get what that's saying.
And it's pretty cold to say.
It's also very verbose.
Hey, you got to task organize sometimes.
You got to have a flexible organization.
Yes, definitely.
It goes on and this is where we get we start getting a little bit of fire going here.
Set rules and methods must be avoided.
That is probably the last thing that someone would think about the military.
Right?
Set rules and methods must be avoided.
And I'll say I actually think that's a little bit of a strong statement.
Like you actually have to have standard operating procedures.
You have to have some rules in place.
I think maybe that's the kind of statement where you're making it because the common practice
is to follow set rules so strictly.
And I'll give you another example.
So you know what we talk about humility all the time?
We talk about humility all the time.
Even though confidence is an equally important trait for a leader to have.
Why aren't we running around telling people to be confident all the time?
Because 98% of the time the issue is not people are lack confidence.
98% of the time it's that they lack humility.
So that's why we end up talking about that all the time.
Hey, you got to be humbly, you got to be humble.
Because who ends up in leadership positions?
Right?
Does somebody that's afraid to step up and isn't confident?
They don't end up in leadership positions.
So over years, if we're dealing with the CEO of a company or we're dealing with a unit
commander in the military or a team leader in any organization, they got there for years
of being confident for sure.
That's how they ended up there.
So and it worked for them and not only exacerbates and magnifies their confidence, which
is good.
But when they get to a point where all of a sudden they start believing their own hype
and that's where it becomes a problem.
So 98% of the time the problem that we're dealing with isn't a lack of confidence is
a lack of humility.
Now where this changes is when we're dealing with a young junior officer that feels
like they're insecure, they don't really know what they should do.
And they need to have confidence.
And the confidence that they actually need is the confidence to say, hey, you know what,
sergeant or hey, you know what, forming on a job site, I don't really know how to do
this.
Can you guide me through it?
That's the only confidence they need.
They don't know how to do the actual thing.
Yeah.
They just need to, they just need to have the confidence that they can say, I don't get it.
And it won't undermine their credibility as a leader to admit that they don't know what
to do.
No, it doesn't undermine it at all.
So what they're saying here is you got these military folks that are always following
the rules.
That's kind of the, that's the lean.
That's the tendency.
The tendency is military guy, you got to told to do something, you're going to do
it.
What they're saying is leaning, getting pulling back the other direction a little bit harder
to balance the dichotomy a little bit as set rules and methods must be avoided.
And then it continues.
They limit imagination and initiative, which are so important in the successful prosecution
of war.
They provide the enemy a fixed pattern of operations, which he can more easily counter.
Yeah, which he can exploit.
Right.
So you're doing the same thing over and over again.
Cool.
Watch this.
We'll be waiting for you.
And now we get to the point where I was kind of like, well, what this book starts
off with is basically, you know, you know, you get a legal document and it starts off with
the definition of all the terms.
That's what this starts off with.
Theodore War comprises this.
Theodore operations is that.
Combat zone is this.
Communication zone is that.
And so it goes through a bunch of sort of tactical terms, which is fine.
I mean, they're necessary.
But that's kind of where this thing starts off.
Whereas the troop in fearing starts off with just the most legit intro.
Here's, here's number one from the troop in for the conduct of war is an art, depending
upon free, creative activity scientifically grounded.
It makes the highest demands on the personality.
That's how that one starts off.
This one I'll read because these are both numbered the same way.
That's how much they ripped it off.
They're both kind of every single paragraph throughout is numbered.
This one starts off with theater of war comprises those areas of land, sea and air, which
are or may become directly involved in the conduct of war.
Week.
We didn't want that.
That's not what we were looking for.
So then finally, in chapter two, it starts to step up a little bit.
And you're going to start.
This is where you're going to start hearing some of the same stuff.
A little bit different.
Translated a little bit differently.
Here we go.
One arm wins battles.
The combined action of all arms and services is essential to success.
The characteristics of each arm and service adapt it to the performance of its special
function, the higher commander coordinates and directs the action of all, exploiting their
powers to attain the ends sought.
So we have to work together.
We have to cover move for each other.
It's important to remember, you're not going to win alone.
That's also why they say there's no set answer for this.
You don't know what arm or which component you have is going to be the one that you're
going to use.
And if I set it at SOP says in this situation, you do this every single time.
You're going to lose every single time.
Because there is no prescribed way to do it.
There's just a framework and understanding how they work.
And the art is what do I do now?
This is also an interesting.
If you break this down to a really granular level.
And this is a question that has come up before, to me, you've got a person that's naturally
good at something, but they're really not naturally good at something else.
What do you do?
According to this, what you do is you exploit their powers.
You take advantage of what they're good at.
Of course, it doesn't mean, if I've got Dave Burke who's really good at interacting
relationships with a client, but you're horrible at paperwork, I don't assign you to
be in charge of the paperwork and not let you start to client.
It wouldn't make you better.
No, I want to take advantage of what you're good at.
I will still say, hey, Dave, man, you've got to get better paperwork.
You've got to get better paperwork.
I'm not going to have you running it, but you've got to get better at it.
And you're like, cool.
And over time, you do get better at it.
But it's not.
And then I got someone else that's awesome at paperwork, but they're not good at communications.
Well, I'm not going to put them in the client facing position.
I'm going to put them in the back room with a computer bot.
We are going to work with them.
We're going to make them get up and talk to some clients so that we do build a more well-rounded
team.
Yeah, for sure.
You actually don't know when that person who is weak at this one thing might need
to rely on that for organizational success.
You can't ignore that.
Yeah, in a sealed position, I mean, every, okay, you've got your corpsmen, your medic.
The corpsmen obviously is the go-to guy who's carrying the med gear and is trained at an
incredibly advanced level.
But every single person knows how to put out a turn-to-kit, knows how to stop the bleeding.
I've used how to do an IV, and knows how to do a needle-down decompression.
We all get that training.
We can make it happen.
Yep.
Same thing with cons.
Same thing with everyone.
Everybody knows how to shoot that, that pig gun.
Everybody in the squad, everyone in the platoon knows how to do that.
Everybody's going to need a note of program the radio.
Yes indeed.
True statement.
All right, now what it does now is it breaks down every sort of arm that we're talking
about.
We're talking to arms, the different no-one arm wins battles.
It breaks down every arm, it breaks down cavalry, field artillery, co-star-tiltary, air
corps, engineer, signal corps, chemical warfare.
Because remember, this is coming off of World War I.
I'm not going to cover all those, but I will look at infantry.
Because it just says a couple things about infantry.
The infantry is essentially an arm of close combat.
Its primary mission in the attack is to close with the enemy and destroy your capture room,
in defense to hold its position and repel the hostile attack.
Infantry fights by combining fire movement.
I think we call that cover move, and shock action.
Sometimes people use words that I need to completely embed into my vocabulary.
Shock action is one of those things.
By fire, it inflicts losses on the enemy and neutralizes his combat power.
By movement, it closes with the enemy and makes its fire more effective.
By shock action, it completes the destruction of the enemy in close combat.
Amen.
Totally.
But then we got a little butt here, because we all love infantry, but here we go.
Infantry is capable of limited, independent action through the employment of its own weapons.
Its offensive power decreases appreciably when its freedom to maneuver is limited or
when it is confronted by an organized, defensive position.
That's why as much as I love infantry, you have to have the supporting arms.
When you capture the enemy in the combined arms dilemma, that is the glory of warfare.
You know what was crazy?
I don't remember when I first heard the term the combined arms dilemma.
And for those of you that don't know what I'm talking about, it's when the enemy or when
you are attacking the enemy from multiple different weapon systems, and no matter what they do,
they're trapped, they're on a dilemma.
If they move one direction, they're going to hit with one type of weapon.
If they move in another direction, they're going to hit with another.
If they go to ground and hide, then the infantry is going to move in.
You've got them in the combined arms dilemma.
This is what it is.
You know what it essentially?
It's a checkmate.
That's a checkmate.
That's exactly right.
What's interesting is, and what was scary was in Ramadi, the enemy would trap coalition forces
in the combined arms dilemma.
And so they would initiate perhaps by dropping mortars onto a little outstation.
When you're getting mortared, what you have to do is you have to get overhead cover.
So now when you get overhead cover, you're basically hiding.
When you're hiding, then they come out with machine gun fire.
They start shooting machine guns because they can expose themselves, they can start shooting
machine guns.
While the machine guns, you can you can shoulder and shoot a machine gun very rapidly.
So while that's happening, now you're essentially pinned down.
Now they come out with the rockets because they take a little bit longer to aim.
They're more, you know, an RPG takes a little bit more time to aim and you're more exposed.
There's back blasts deal with.
So it's a little bit harder to weapon to handle.
So it takes a little bit more time.
But when you're getting cover fire from a machine gun, you got that time.
So then they can come the rockets.
Now while this is happening, here comes the vehicle born idea and now everyone's heads
are down.
Explosions are going off and while this is happening, a vehicle born ID now closes in, makes
it through the serpentine and blows up inside of one of these little outposts that happened.
Multiple times while we're in the body and these little outposts, these little checkpoints,
these little ECPs would be in several cases overrun.
Yeah.
The enemy also evolved while we were there too and we started to see them account for
what they knew our normal reaction would be.
We understand what a combined arms element is and the other thing that they did that made
that situation so hard was they would interact with the civilians.
So they knew our normal response.
If you wanted to get on your heavy machine guns and lay down a base of fire, there was so
much risk at injuring civilians that we had to account for and they knew that.
So they made our normal response to that so much more difficult and they added that additional
layer of complexity for us so we had limited options and they took full advantage of that.
And those those V-Bids, those fuel laden, you know, trash trucks and things like that.
Those things that they did and watch them get better accounting for what they knew we
would do made it even harder for us and they look, they got good at that and it was really
really tough.
And taking it well again, adaptation, if you recall, when, well, when I first got there,
they would do one of those attacks at a time.
Yeah.
There was a couple days where they did two or three of those attacks simultaneously in
different parts of the city because then they knew, hey, they're going to overwhelm our
casualty evacuation.
They're going to overwhelm our fire support.
They're going to overwhelm our QRF.
So they were good.
Yeah, they were good.
The combined arms dilemma, it's a positive thing when you put somebody in it.
It's a negative thing when it happens to you.
By the way, just, I mean, it's worth noting that when you're doing GJ2, you're looking for
the same thing.
You're looking to set up a triangle, arm lock, sweep combined arms dilemma.
You've got three things.
If they defend one, you're going to catch them in the other.
You've got them in checkmate.
That's what you're trying to do.
All right, now after that, like I said, this whole next section, it just explains each
one of the various arms that we have, you know, from like I said, from cavalry to field artillery
and boy, it was a happy and remodied when we were able to use field artillery.
That was, that was awesome.
I mean, it was awesome to, to tanks and field artillery.
There's not too many people in modern warfare that get to do that.
Yeah, I got to control some artillery.
I think it was like the two to F.A. and they didn't, we didn't get to use them a lot, but
man, they were so dialed in when we called for them.
They were ready to go, getting to use them was awesome.
Because it wasn't that common, but when we did, man, they were so dialed in.
Yeah, I remember the most, I remember they fired a ton of a loom.
We were doing a big night operation.
I think it was when we were pushing into like a cop iron.
Springfield maybe something like that.
And they just, they just put up a little for a solid 45 minutes.
It was so epic.
And it was because the Iraqi soldiers couldn't, didn't have night vision.
So hey, let's get them, let's get them to be able to see.
So it covers that, it covers the, what do they call it?
Coastal, Coast artillery core.
They cover the air core, which is pretty short and we'll get into that later.
Pretty World War II air was not a huge element in warfare.
In World War II, it was in many, in many cases, the biggest part of warfare.
So some battles were almost pure warfare.
We're air warfare.
I mean, a lot of those naval battles were, I don't know, what percentage, but a
massive percentage was air warfare.
The battle of Britain, the battle of Britain was 100% air warfare.
So, and we'll talk about some of the changes that happened in 1944 when they rewrote
this thing.
So then they talk about the signal core.
They talk about chemical warfare.
So they cover all those things and again, kind of lay out what they are and what's important
about them.
And then they finally get into chapter three, which is called leadership.
And now they get, they get some credit right now because they're coming out strong, strong.
Maybe even stronger than our German friends over here in the Tupenturon, opening line,
chapter three, leadership.
Leadership is based on knowledge of men.
So you're understanding human nature is what you have to do if you're going to be in leadership
position.
That's what we're talking about.
That's what we've been talking about.
That's what we talk about all the time.
And that's not just leadership in war.
That's leadership everywhere.
That's what business, everything, that's exactly how it's, it's people.
It's men.
And that is, that's why when I went to college, we were talking about your college, where
you studied policy, right?
I studied men.
And I did, and I did it because I was reading books.
And I'll tell you, I've said this before, the guy that understands human nature, I think
maybe better than anyone else, Shakespeare.
It's crazy as that sounds.
You start diving into those books.
He understood people.
There's a lot of lessons to be learned.
At some point in my life, I'm going to do every Shakespeare play.
I'm going to cover it all because there's so many lessons in each one of those.
We'll get there.
All right, continues on.
And it's where we go.
We're still, we're still staying strong right now.
Man is the fundamental instrument in war.
Other instruments may change, but he remains relatively constant.
Unless his behavior and elemental attributes are understood, gross mistakes will be made in
planning operations and in troop leading.
In training the individual soldier, the essential considerations are to integrate individuals
into a group and establish for that group a high standard of military conduct and performance
of duty without destroying the initiative of the individual.
Yes.
Is there much more to say?
That should just be read over and over again.
And how hard the balance is for a leader to cultivate that and to allow that to happen
and how critical that is.
Because without either of those, you simply cannot be successful.
I can't remember if it was life or JP at the muster was telling a story about how they
were watching, it was life.
He was out watching when he was the ops officer at a seal team.
He was out watching the training.
I was putting the guys through training.
And all K. also is breaking loose.
It was total mayhem.
It was an urban environment.
And there was no leadership happening.
Leaders were all just overwhelmed.
And he sees me walk over to this young kind of pipeting E5 who I've been watching him.
I've been tracking him.
And I can see that he's good.
He's a good aggressive.
He's a natural leader.
And I walk over to him and he's holding like a saw.
And I was like, bro, you know what I'm like, bro, what's going on?
He's like, we need to get out of here and I was like, make it happen.
And you can see his eyes, he's kind of questioning because you know, he's, I think he's
a one cruise wonder.
I'm like, you make it happen.
And he's like, okay, and just starts making the call.
And that right there, at some point, he's initiative as an individual had been beat down.
And as soon as it was released into the wild, he took charge and made things happen.
And so it is a hard balance.
You can't have this dude just out there being rogue and trust me, some of these young
seals.
You give him a little indication that they can get after it and they're going to go to
the end three.
And I would see that happen too.
You can get some some kid that's so over the top that they'll just start making, you
know, trying to make everything happen themselves and they'll get out of control.
And that'll be bad.
So yes, this is what it is.
Understanding behavior, understanding elemental attributes.
Yeah.
All right.
And then it goes on.
War places a severe test on the physical endurance and moral stamina of the individual
soldier to perform his duties efficiently.
He must not only be well equipped and technically trained, but he must also be physically
qualified to endure the hardships of field service and be constantly fortified by discipline
based on the high ideals of military conduct.
We salute you.
You got to keep that.
There was you got to keep that physical, the physical readiness.
You have to have it.
Yeah, for sure.
But in the same sentence, they just say the phrase, you know, the moral standard too.
Like it's, that's a really important thing.
And it's crazy how these sentences, they're so succinct.
They're so straightforward, but just how powerful that comment is.
The physical fitness and the moral standard.
You have to keep both of those.
You just those two things.
Yeah.
The moral stamina.
So easy for that to break down.
Strong men, inculcated with a proper sense of duty, a conscious pride in their unit,
and a feeling of mutual obligation to their comrades in the group can dominate and demoralize,
and dominate the demoralizing influences of battle far better than those in
but only with the fear of punishment or disgrace.
Yeah, there's a couple of things I was on Theo Vaughn's podcast yesterday.
And we were talking about controlling your emotions.
You know, he's an emotional guy and he was saying he doesn't, he was saying he's
hilarious, but he was saying he doesn't have any emotion.
He's not very good emotional memory.
So when something bad happens, he does something and he gets a bad result and it's horrible.
And then he'll make the same mistake a week later because he just doesn't remember.
And then he goes, oh man, I'm so stupid.
And I was talking about the fact that I tried to figure out because I do consciously
try and control my emotions.
Right?
And I was trying to think of where did that come from?
Where do you start doing this?
And the answer is actually pretty straightforward.
I remember as I got more senior in the SEAL teams.
Well, when I was junior, I remember this.
I see a leader lose their temper and think that's not good.
That's negative.
That every person in our routine right now is looking to this guy like he's an idiot
because they're acting that way.
And then as I got older and got into leadership positions, I realized, oh, if I go negative,
every one's going negative, if I stay positive, everyone is staying positive, that's a big deal.
That's where it comes from.
So then we get to this year and this is so obvious.
I mean, you know, while I was reading this, I could see your head just nodding in affirmation
that.
And this is where there's a split.
I don't know if it's a split, but there's definitely a frisier of some kind of
fissure of some kind between people that think, hey, if I bark orders and people fear
me, I guess it's that one.
It's fear.
Do they fear me or do they respect me?
Do people fear me or do they love and respect me?
You will get 1,000 times better leadership from people that love you and respect you than
you will from people that are ready to you.
Yeah, and that fear and intimidation, you get those short term wins.
You know, we get the response.
Yeah, that's what I said.
Yeah, that worked.
I got a little tactical, a little tactical victory.
You and I talked about this all the time, the tactical versus logic.
And that, that could be addictive.
I tell you to do something you do it because you're afraid of the retaliation if you don't.
If I give you any resistance, cool.
Yeah, let me.
Get, be, brow beat me.
Brow beat me down and then all submit to your orders because I just don't want to be
brow beat anymore.
And I go and do what you told me to do.
And you walk away, go and see.
That's right.
That's how you lead.
Yeah, I won.
That's how you're talking about.
Probably what happened is he made a aggressive decision.
One of his leaders came back and crushed him for it.
And had you not been there.
That if I was thinking, I actually know what to do here to save the Patoon.
But I'm not going to say anything because I don't want to get crushed by that guy.
And those, those teams get wiped out in training.
Yeah.
And all, yeah.
So if you're, if you find yourself in a situation where you feel you need to escalate
your emotions, you're wrong in 19 different ways.
We get that question working with the clients all the time.
And I've got no point in my answers is straightforward when people ask, oh, how do I
control my emotions?
And I'm like, well, do you want to win?
Yeah.
I'm like a, then control your emotions.
It's pretty much it because every time you don't, you lose.
And don't be a robot.
We know that.
But that idea of like losing your mind or losing control of yourself.
The answers I was like, do you like winning?
Good.
Stop doing that.
And you'll win more.
Yeah.
And check, continuing.
In spite of the advances in technology, the worth of the individual man is still decisive.
The open order of combat accentuates, accentuates his importance.
Every individual must be trained to exploit a situation with energy and boldness and must
be imbued with the idea that success will depend upon his initiative and action.
Is there any more empowerment that a human being needs, then that right there?
Every individual.
Every individual must be trained to exploit a situation with energy and boldness and must
be imbued with the idea that success will depend upon his initiatives and action.
Again, go back to the monster.
Our J.P. told the story of how I was like, listen, everyone's going to be relying on you.
And he was like, hey, I've been I came up on stage afterwards and I said, what J.P. doesn't
know is I told that to everybody.
I told that to everyone.
That's what I was doing was this right here.
Everyone is going to be counting you.
And it's the truth.
It's the truth because if we're in a horrible situation and we need fire support, it's
the radio man that's going to save us.
If we're in a firefight and we need to maneuver it's the machine gunners that are going
to save us.
If someone gets wounded, it's the corpsman that's going to save us.
If there's a decision that needs to be made, it's the leaders that are going to save us.
If we're dealing with the ID credits that EOD guys are going to save us, everyone is that
person.
And everyone has to be imbued with the idea that success will depend upon his initiative
and action.
We were talking about the one tag three a couple months ago and I'm paraphrasing whether
there's a line on there that is like every single person on your team is critical.
And even the most junior person has the ability to destroy your entire plan.
Something along with the right guys.
That was classfits right there.
That was a classfits quote from inside the one three.
For sure.
Yeah.
So they can win or they can lose.
All right.
Continuing the dispersion of troops in battle caused by the influence of modern weapons
makes control more difficult.
Or he's in within a unit is promoted by good leadership, discipline, pride in the accomplishments
and reputation of the unit and mutual confidence and comradeship among its members.
We're not going to be around each other.
That's not happening.
Yeah.
You're on your own out there.
Leading troops in combat regardless of the echelon of command calls for cool and thoughtful
leaders with a strong feeling of great responsibility imposed upon them extreme ownership.
Every level.
Detach.
Cool.
They must be resolute and self-reliant in their decisions energetic and insistent
in execution and unperturbed by the fluctuations of combat.
Oh yes.
Who is I talking to?
I'll talk to someone lately and they're like, do you get spun up about anything?
And I'm like, nope.
What am I going to get spun up about?
Nothing.
Yeah.
Things are going to go bad.
Yep.
Things are going to go great.
That's the way it's going to be.
Troops are strongly influenced by the example and conduct of their leaders.
Again, that's the conversation I had with the O yesterday.
A leader must have superior knowledge.
That's why we study.
That's why you read.
You know, it's funny because Andrew Paul was reading this with Andrew Paul and he's like,
it's just ridiculous.
This is Andrew Paul talking.
It's ridiculous that I didn't read this when I was a young lieutenant in the Sultives.
And we went through the whole conversation about you talking about getting to stack
of manuals at the basics.
Cool.
Like, hey, I'm going to read them because I have to.
I'm going to memorize whatever words are in there that I think I'm going to get tested
on.
Yeah.
But that's not what we're doing.
That's not knowledge.
This is knowledge.
So a leader must have superior knowledge.
Willpower.
Self-confidence, initiative, and disregard of self.
There you go.
A leader must have superior knowledge.
Willpower, self-confidence, initiative, and disregard of self.
I like how they had to throw that in there.
You know what that offsets?
That offsets self-confidence.
It offsets willpower.
It offsets superior knowledge because disregard of self is humility.
Right?
Hey, that's what it is.
I'm not important.
I don't know everything.
I'm not overconfident.
Continuing.
Any show of fear or unwillingness to share danger is fatal to leadership.
On the other hand, a bold and determined leader will carry his troops with him no matter
how difficult the enterprise.
Mutual confidence between the leader and his men is the surest basis of discipline.
Now they use trust in the two-printhurum.
They use the word trust, same type of sentence, but mutual confidence.
And again, I'm not down there when life is a platoon commander inspecting his
weapons once a day to make sure that they're being cleaned.
He knows me.
I know him.
He trusts me.
I trust him.
That's the best form of discipline.
Not imposed discipline, but mutual confidence.
That's the accountability you talk about too.
I hate.
The accountability is the recognition of this needs to happen.
You know that about me because our relationship is strong enough for you to not have to
wonder if this is important.
It just gets done because you know what needs to get done.
To gain this confidence, the leader must find a way to the hearts of his men.
Here we go.
Isn't that kind of crazy?
Here we are.
We're talking about military operation.
We're talking 1941.
1941, depression is going on.
People are starving in America.
And we talk about how soft things are now.
Well, guess what?
Here we are, 1941.
We're talking about to gain confidence, the leader must find the way to the hearts of his
men.
This he will do by acquiring an understanding of their thoughts and feelings and by showing
a constant concern for their comfort and welfare.
And as one of my heroes, General Muka Yamah said, you got to care about your management.
You got to care about your men.
How do they say here?
Show a constant concern for their welfare and comfort and welfare.
Yeah, what does that mean?
You got to care about your men.
Yeah, for the people listening to this is not some sort of robotic action to you actually
have to care about your men.
This is the authenticity of this is probably more critical than anything else because what
your men will figure out if it's not real, they'll see through that immediately.
I got a good idea.
If you don't care about your men, if you don't care about your troops, if you don't
care about your people, you shouldn't be in the leadership position.
How's that?
Leave.
Go and be a solo entrepreneur or be by yourself.
A good commander avoids subjecting his troops to useless hardships.
He guards against dissipating their combat strength and inconsequential actions or harassing
them through faulty staff management.
So yeah, can you go, I discipline training, train hard, train how you fight all those things.
Can you do that too much?
Yes, you can.
He keeps in close touch with all subordinate units by means of personal visits and observation.
It is essential that he know from personal contact the mental, moral and physical
state of his troops, the conditions with which they are confronted, their accomplishments,
their desires, their needs.
I know your people.
The commander should promptly extend recognition for services well done, lend help, where
help is needed and give encouragement in adversity.
Consider it to those whom he commands, he must be faithful and loyal to those who command
him.
A commander must live with his troops and share their dangers and privations as well as their
joys and sorrows.
By personal observation and experience, he will then be able to judge their needs and combat
value, a commander who unnecessarily taxes the endurance of his troops will only penalize
himself.
The proper expenditure of combat strength in proportion to the objective to be attained.
When necessary to the execution of the mission, the commander requires and receives from
his unit the complete measure of sacrifice.
We can sum all that up actually in by saying, and this is what we say with them, you
got to build relationships.
Not get back to the comment that was made earlier is when you violate these things, when
you don't do these things for your men, your people, you certainly hurt them, but you
actually are hurting yourself.
You are actually going to be the loser in the end of all this because you're not doing
things.
Even that people should understand too is when they talk about all these different needs,
everybody on your team is different too.
This isn't just some blanket.
I have a platoon of 25 or a company of 50.
Every person's needs are going to be different and you as a leader actually need to know
individually what all those are.
Yes.
And what I thought you were going to say, that's a great point.
I thought you were going to say, when you said everybody, I said, oh, I know he's going
this.
When you're doing these little maneuvers to take care of yourself, everybody, you're
not going to be able to do that.
How do you notice this?
And 100 percent.
And not only that, not only do they see it, but they think that you think that they're
stupid and you don't notice what's happening.
And you look like the biggest idiot in the world.
You make these little maneuvers, you have that little space heater.
You have that little heater in your room whenever it's freezing.
They know that.
You set up your, you're in a logger site and it's raining and you go into the spot where
you're under the protection of the whatever and all the sudden you're drying, everyone
else is wet.
And you think no one notices that.
They notice it.
One hundred percent.
And they actually are looking at you thinking, oh, you think we don't see you.
You take, you take not just one hit for being all warm and cozy, you take two hits
for being warm and cozy and for letting everyone know that you think they're a bunch
of idiots.
You think you're smart, you're any idiot.
Yeah.
When you do that, everybody sees it.
Everybody sees it.
Oh, I was, we had to do security on, we would capture guys my first diploma to our
equity would capture guys and then we had to, we held them in detention ourselves.
We like had our own little detention facility and this is just the first example that I
thought of.
So we would have to stand watch, you know, which sucks, you know, it's whatever.
And in my mind, the worst watch to take, I think it was like, this is a two hour watch
and I thought two to four, right?
Zero 200 is zero 400, that's where you got to wake up in the middle of the night, it takes
you 20 minutes to get there, you're all, and then you get back and you get to sleep for
another hour before you got to wake up.
So the two to four is the worst, worst possible watch.
And I remember telling my assistant, Patoon Kooander, like, hey, right on, we're taking
zero two to zero four and he's like, really?
And I'm like, yeah, and he's like, check, you knew exactly why.
Because if I'm going to be asking everyone else to stay awake or get up early or whatever,
we're taking the worst possible one, and, you know, you don't need to say anything about
that.
And no one says, hey, thanks.
No one says that to you, but I'll tell you what, if you take the eight to ten watch,
so you can go do your watch, wind down, go back and sleep like a normal human being,
every single person, every single person will take note of that.
And they'll log it down in their little, little, little mental log, but you're
your leadership capabilities.
So don't be an idiot.
Everyone's watching.
Yeah.
And you can become that guy.
Oh, if you do it enough, you'll become that guy.
And then even when you figure it out, and you start to try to do the right thing, if you've
been that guy for so long, they'll just write it like, oh, you're just trying to do the right.
And you can't even dig out of that hole.
You've got to be careful, you've got to stay out of that hole from the very begin.
If you dig yourself in that hole, then you've got to start making real sacrifices.
Take that.
Listen, don't worry about watching.
I got it all night tonight.
I'm just going to suck it up.
Okay.
And you know, he's taking one for the team, right?
And you're going to have to do that like 40 or exactly before you reach level.
So yeah, if you think no one's noticing that, they're noticing next.
A spirit of unselfish cooperation with their fellows is to be fostered among officers
and men.
So, it's a strong and incapable, must encourage and lead the week and less experienced.
On such a foundation of feeling of true comradeship will become firmly established and
the full combat value of the troops will be made available to the higher commander.
Both of these, the troop and fearing and this, both talk about how the strong have to
help the week.
It's an interesting concept because it's very easy to get the attitude of like, hey,
that guy's sucks.
He's a non-hant.
And I'm not going to help him.
Yeah.
It's really easy to take that attitude.
And if you have that attitude, I remember to Officer Candidate's goal.
There was some complaining to my drone instructor who was an outstanding, obviously, an outstanding
Marine.
So, you know, it was like, I think we got to write little notes to him, like little
little comments, you know what I mean?
And he got a comment that was like, you know, some of these people just shouldn't
be here.
And he came out and said, hey, let's say, you know what?
I agree with you.
We're going to get rid of the bottom 10%.
And so, let's say, eight people like, yeah, and then he goes, and then you know, we're
going to have a new bottom 10% and then a new bottom 10% and then a new bottom 10% and
then the only person that's going to graduate from our Kenna School is Jacob.
It's like, that's what that's what it turns out to, right?
So what you have to do and what he was trying to say to us was, hey, what you need to
do, your whole military career, you're going to have people that need help, you're freaking
help them.
Yeah, and also feeds this myth that you can just fire your way to success.
I just get rid of these guys and we'd be so good to go if I could just get rid of
these guys.
I'm like, come on, and business who say it all the time.
We ask people, hey, what are the people like in your company?
And most people are hardworking and motivated and care in the tribe.
So, what are those people need if they're struggling?
They need help.
That's what they need more than anything else.
Does some people got to go?
Yes, there are some people that got to go, but we're just going to cycle through 10% all
the time.
Come on, man.
Back to the book, the combat value of a unit is determined and great measure by the soldier
Lee qualities of its leaders and members and its will to fight.
Outward marks of this combat value will be found in the setup and appearance of the men,
in the condition care and maintenance of the weapons, and equipment, and in the readiness
of the unit for action.
Superior combat value will offset numerical inferiority.
Superior leadership combined with some barrier combat value of troops constitutes a reliable
basis for success in battle.
Go, you were writing.
I know you must have something important to say.
Well, I was actually thinking about something that you would already said I was going to
save her for later, but it occurred to me as you were talking about that previous comment
about these are attributes we're talking about leaders in combat and war, and we're
always making the connection to business and things like that.
Here's the thing about that last comment about helping the weak.
You can teach this at any age.
Go read the warrior kid code.
These are lessons that you're five, six, seven year old can start to learn now and to understand
that the best thing you can do for the weak person in your class or the person struggling
in your soccer team or these aren't adult lessons.
If you're a leader out there and you got kids, you can start to instill this right now.
That lesson is not just relevant for combat or for your platoon or even for your company.
It's relevant for everybody at every age.
If you teach it now, think about the success.
Your kids will have in the long run you do that.
Anyway, just make a connection.
Yeah, so the warrior kid, let me see what number it is.
The bottom line is, and this is where it gets a little bit of the warrior kid, number
five.
The warrior kid treats people with respect and helps out other people whenever possible.
This is where everything is beautiful in the universe.
Everything is beautiful in the universe because when you help other people, you get better.
Your team gets better, but you get better.
Every time you teach something, you get better at it.
It's just the way it works.
So there's like that mutual benefit.
The idea that a ham is going to get rid of someone that's weak instead of helping them
wrong.
The warrior kid trains hard exercises and he needs to be strong and healthy and he knows
how to fight so he can stand up to bullies and protect the weak.
That's something for your kids right there.
That is the same exact thing, they say you have to protect the weak and it helps you
when you do that.
Yeah.
Continuing, a poorly trained unit is likely to fail in a critical moment due to demoralizing
impressions caused by unexpected events in combat.
This is particularly true in the first engagements of a unit.
Therefore, training and discipline are of great importance.
Reliever must take energetic action against the indescipline, panic, pillage and other disruptive
forces.
Discipline is the main cohesive force that binds the members of a unit.
Discipline is the main cohesive force that binds.
You know, it's interesting.
I think we were covering SLA Marshall's men under fire and he's talking about when units
got routed and when like mayhem broke, since people start running away.
They have documented cases where the platoon leader up in the front line goes, hey, runner,
go back and tell headquarters we need more ammunition.
He goes, cool, got it, get something to start running.
Someone sees him running and goes, oh, dang, we're running.
So someone else gets up and then next thing you know, everyone is running.
From one person just seeing it happen.
And once again, that's what that's what we're talking with.
Theo yesterday, the way you act as a leader, you got to act correctly.
If you start to panic, if you start to freak out, if you start to lose your temper, if
you start to lose your mind, everyone else is going to do the same thing.
If you run away, everyone's going to do the same.
If you go forward, everyone's going to follow you.
And yes, discipline is the main cohesive force that binds the members of a unit together.
A wise and capable commander will see that the men assigned to the competent groups and
of his unit are compatible and that the composition of the groups is changed as little
as possible.
All right.
So I'll read that one more time.
A wise and capable commander will see that the men assigned to the competent groups of
the unit are compatible.
So they can interoperate, and they can change around.
And that the compositions of his group groups is changed as little as possible.
So when you have little subunits, keep them together.
Keep them together.
That's, they get to know each other, they get to understand each other, they can read
out, read each other, and that's the way you need to work.
They don't need to be freaking redevelop a relationship.
They already have it.
When task unit bruiser went through our urban training, and we had a bunch of strap hangers
with us.
We had a bunch of other people, EOD people, some other, we probably had an additional
like 15 people with our task unit.
And so the initial reaction from from life and Seth was, they put those guys, you know,
that's two other squads.
We don't want them in our cartoon.
And I was like, no, what we're going to do is we're going to take one or two of them
and put them in each one of our fire teams and make them part of our unit.
And, you know, they objected.
But what happens, what happens is that those people get individually, it's very easy for
a four or five-man fire team to absorb a one or two people.
Yeah.
Hey, cool.
What's your name?
Fred, cool.
Right on.
You're good.
Hey, I'm Bill.
Let me know.
Here's what I'm at.
Here's how we do our head count.
Here's what we're looking for.
Boom.
Integration was almost immediate.
We have now when it was time to assault a building and we call them sections, because
they weren't really fire teams.
They were a little bit bigger now.
So I called them sections and which is I stole from the grom, which is the Polish special
operations that I worked to turn with my first diploma to Baghdad.
They called the ad sections of like six guys.
I was like, cool.
We're going to have sections now because we were a little bit bigger than a fire team.
Cool.
And then it was like sections two, three and four assault section one, a whole fast and everyone
knows what to do.
You got little micro section leaders that are making things happen.
Yeah.
That doesn't happen.
You take the six new guys and give them their own sex.
Yeah.
No.
And then you take, then you have three of those, right?
Which is probably what we would have had three sections of people just randomly out
there.
By the way, and those people weren't even integrated as a unit.
It wasn't like it was a separate platoon.
If it was a full pl- another platoon of seals, that would have made some sense.
Okay, cool.
The platoon seals, they have their broken into fire.
Yes.
Okay, cool.
We get it.
We can command that.
But we have 16, 15, 20 random people that haven't been working together.
Cool.
Guess what?
You're about to report to a leader in task in a bruiser.
This is petty officer's second class, get some.
But that's what you wanted to do.
You want to keep your team together.
Continuing.
He will provide each group with a leader in whom its members have confidence.
That's another thing.
So now you got the task being a bruiser guys.
Everyone knows that fire team leader.
They don't have to meet Fred.
That guy who's at the jump team for eight years.
He doesn't know what he's doing.
No, it doesn't matter.
You know, Fred's on board with the program.
He wants the win.
He will so regulate the interior administration of the units that all groups perform
the same amount of work and enjoy the same amount of leisure.
He will see that demonstrated efficiency is promptly recognized and rewarded.
You will set before all the high standard of military conduct and apply the same rules
of discipline to all.
Here's a good one.
Good morale and a sense of unity in a command cannot be improvised.
They must be thoroughly planned and systematically promoted.
They are born of just in fair treatment, a constant concern for the soldiers welfare.
Oh, you want to build morale?
There you go.
A constant concern for the soldiers welfare.
They are all training in basic duties, comrade ship among men and pride in self, organization
and country.
Morales a byproduct of your leadership.
Good leaders have units with good morale.
Bad leaders don't.
Period.
Yeah.
The Marine Corps does a damn good job of this one, don't they?
I mean, I mean, the military doesn't general about damn the Marine Corps.
Good at that.
Because when you're in the Marine Corps, you're in the Marine Corps.
That's just the way it is.
The establishment and maintenance of good morale are incumbent upon every commander and
are the marks of good leadership, which is what you just said.
And then we get to number 111.
The first demand in war is decisive action.
Commanders inspire confidence in their subordinates by their decisive conduct and their ability
to gain material advantage over the enemy.
A reputation for failure in a leader destroys morale.
The morale of a unit is that of its leader.
Again, that's what you just said.
But hey, the first demand in war is decisive action.
And again, it talks about the southern metropolitan.
An age of all gave a great example.
You know, decisive action doesn't mean you just make the full commitment to a decision
and he gave that example of looking at your Google Maps.
You've got to walk through the city to a place and it's two miles away.
And so you walk out of the hotel and you look at your Google Maps and the arrow is just spinning.
Because you're not going anywhere.
Cool.
Start walking.
Take 10 steps.
That thing will self-correct because now you'll know where you're supposed to be going.
So that's a decisive action.
Sitting there, not doing anything, isn't getting you anywhere.
That the enemy's maneuvering on you, by the way.
Yeah.
And that flip side you talked about is, hey, we want to get into this space.
Well, that's by three buildings.
Whoa, whoa, whoa.
Hang on.
We actually, that is overly, that's way overly aggressive.
And actually, isn't what you need.
Yeah, that example was awesome.
A commander must bear in mind that physical unfitness will undermine his efficiency.
And actually, surprisingly, I don't think this is in the trooping
fury at all.
I don't think they talk about physical fitness in this much clarity.
A commander must bear in mind that physical unfitness will undermine his efficiency.
He owes it to the men under his command to conserve his own fitness.
neglect renders him, unable to bring a normal mind to the solution of his problems
and reacts unfavorable on his whole command.
That is, that is a heavy statement.
Here's the thing that, you know, that term fatigue will make a coward out of any
man.
Like when you get tired, it's, you start making bad decisions and you can't maintain.
So that's what this is.
And if you're the better physical condition you're in, the more you'll be able to
maintain for.
You know, people freak out because I don't sleep a lot, which I, I'm not, I don't encourage
people not to sleep a lot.
You should sleep as much sleep as you need.
Get it, bunch of sleep.
It's great.
I know the sleep diplomat guy sleep.
I'm not against that sleep.
But what I, I will say is this, like if you're in good physical condition and you eat well,
you will not need as much sleep.
I'm here to tell you, like, well, at least I don't think you do.
I was talking about with with with with Flynn Cochran the other day on being on the road
all the time.
And so sometimes we're on the road.
I flew literally to Maine 36 hours ago and I flew back the very next day.
I was on the road and and the the best thing you can do in the situation where you're going
to be tired is actually go workout for sure.
I mean, it's the best thing you can do.
And the days that I get them like, I have to work out at 330 and I don't, I regret
at the entire day.
Yeah.
I never once heard you say you don't need sleep, but what the reality is is is when
you're tired, the best thing you can do is get out of bed and do something physical.
Yeah.
Is the best way to without a doubt.
And yeah, it's physical fitness.
Don't neglect it.
And that that happens a lot of times in business.
People get wrapped in the business.
And if you don't make some time to stay physically fit, strategic look, there's going to be
times in business.
There's times in echelon front.
There's times in our lives where, hey man, you like, I don't, I can't do my normal workouts
during the master.
Like we do, we do, we work out.
But it's not, it's not my normal workout.
It's a workout that takes 40 minutes, not and it's only one a day.
You know, so that's not normal.
But we get to suck it up for the master.
It's, you know, four or five days of us very, very work intensive.
But when that's over, man, you've got to get right back into it.
So people that go, hey, I get it.
You've got some project to do and you've got a week where you can only work out for 10 minutes
a day, eight minutes a day, 28 minutes a day, whatever.
Cool.
Get it.
I get it.
If you don't work out and then all of a sudden you can develop that habit, well, then you
have to bear in mind that the physical unfitness is going to undermine your efficiency period
in the story.
So that's the closest out leadership.
The next chapter is called the exercise of command.
Doctrins of combat chapter four.
Here's where we give credit good writing, solid statement.
The ultimate objective of all military operations is the destruction of the enemies armed
forces in battle.
That's those simple statements like that.
It's interesting when we go work with companies and no one, everyone is completely lost
track of what it is that they're trying to do.
Yeah.
What's your mission?
Yep.
The ability to select objectives whose attainment contributes most decisively and quickly
to the defeat of the hostile armed forces is one attribute of the able commander.
What does that mean?
A good leader has the ability to prioritize and execute the most important things already
to begin.
The ability to select objectives whose attainment contributes most decisively and quickly
to defeat the hostile armed forces is one attribute of the able commander.
That is prioritized next.
You got to pick the most important thing.
What are they calling here?
The objective, whose attainment contributes most decisively.
That's the most important thing.
That's what you're going to focus on.
Prioritize an execute.
Next, simple and direct plans and methods with prompt and thorough executioner often
decisive in the attainment of success.
That is almost verbatim from group and fear of it.
Almost the exact same thing.
You got to keep things simple.
People been saying that forever.
Unity of command obtains that unity of effort, which is essential to the decisive
application of full combat power of the available forces.
Unity of effort is furthered by full cooperation between elements of the command.
Yes, prioritize an execute.
Figure out what's most important and then cover and move for each other as you execute.
Ext through offensive action, a commander exercises his initiative, preserves his freedom
of action and imposes his will on the enemy.
Boom, there you go.
What is that offensive action?
Being on the offense, not being on the defense.
Think of what it does for you as a person, as a human, as a leader.
It exercises your initiative, preserves your freedom of action and imposes your will on the
enemy.
You got to go on offense.
A defensive attitude may, however, be deliberately adopted as a temporary expedient while
awaiting an opportunity for counter offensive action.
Hey, look, sometimes you got to be defensive or made a budget better be looking for that
moment to go back on the offense.
The defensive posture is designed to find the opportunity to go on the defensive.
Go on the offensive.
That's why you're doing it.
If you're on the defense, this is so clear in Gitu.
If you're on defense in Gitu and you stay on defense, you will lose.
Eventually you're going to get caught.
You can only defend so much and they're attacking.
They have the initiative.
They have the freedom of action.
They're imposing their will on you.
You can defend for a little while, but eventually you're going to get taken.
You're going to get submitted.
It's same in flying.
And there is a comment in there that I think it's the describe the freedom of movement.
It's a thing we talk about all the time as the attribute to make sure that you're doing
it correctly is, can you still maneuver?
So you can't be so offensive that you no longer can maneuver.
But the ability to maneuver in that position is what allows you to find the opportunity
to exploit and then go on the offensive to preserve your maneuvering room is the part that
you're balanced in those.
So how do you over commit an aircraft?
Actually, it's easy and it happens all the time and you have the aircraft have potential
energy or capability and if you're maneuver to get closer or whatever you're trying
to do with another aircraft, if you overdo that and then at your next move you don't have
any energy to turn the aircraft.
You're going to lose.
And that can happen in the most powerful airplane in the world.
I could be an arraptor and if I turn it really hard and actually turn it too hard and my
energy goes from three inch and knots to 100 knots.
I haven't allowed myself to kill them at that move so I need another move on the chessboard
and there's no energy left.
I literally can't maneuver and I will lose to an inferior platform.
So when you're riding a bicycle, if you're going slow, it's harder to stay balanced
and it's harder to turn.
Is that the same thing like when you're in an aircraft, you do certain amount of speed?
There's a point at which and it's measured.
You know what that point is, is where your maneuvering gets to a peak and then starts to diminish
and then you can no longer maneuver based on that speed.
And that's speed.
That's solely based on speed.
It's exactly right.
Or it would call potential energy.
You might need altitude.
You would descend to get that energy back.
But it's a combination of the actual air speed, the number in your display, 100 miles in
our arraptor, whatever it is and how much altitude that you have.
And the ground is the ground and so if you cannot descend, whatever your air speed is,
that's what you have left.
It's, we call it potential energy, but it boils down to how much maneuvering air speed do
you have.
How fast is a raptor have to be going?
So it doesn't stall.
Well that number happens to be extremely low and the irony in that is a lot of people
don't understand is that your minimum controllable air speed is a critical component.
So the slow r I can go and be maneuverable is a huge advantage for me.
But every aircraft has a limit that if you get past whatever that number is, you're out
of maneuvering air speed and you're going to lose.
You have to have the ability to maneuver no matter what situation you're in to include being
on the defensive.
And that's what they're talking about is I'm going to stay in this position until I see
the opportunity to go the offensive and I'm going to maneuver in that position.
What was that standard move that you do when you don't know what to do?
Lift vector on and pull.
Point of the guy and turn until you figure out what you need to do next.
Lift vector.
Vector.
To essentially where your airplane is going in this guy.
And if you don't know what to do, you put your lift vector directly on your opponent.
You point directly at him and you start to maneuver towards directly towards him.
That doesn't mean it's the right move.
It means because you don't know what the right move is, you have to be doing something.
Because if you sit there and do nothing, which is sort of the ultimate defensive position
is I'm just going to hole up and bury, you're going to die so quickly.
Go on the offense.
Even if you're not 100% sure what to do, go on the offense.
If a defensive posture is actually a decision you make by design.
Going on the offensive, if you don't know what to do, if it's only your maneuvering,
the more training the more reps you have, the sooner you're going to figure out what to do.
The default aggressive mindset of going on the offensive, what doesn't that apply?
Yeah, I mean, and this is something that Andrew and I talked about.
You obviously, you don't just commit.
And once you, what you just said, you just don't commit ignorantly.
No, and you don't over commit.
You make the small decisions, even lift vector on and pull.
Even that, that's like an adjustment, but then you're immediately, you're just under the
you to loop.
That's your 10 steps down the road to get orient to that Andrew just described.
And as soon as you, okay, I've got it figured out now you go do something else.
You've got to keep that maneuvering speed.
Continue on, the selection by the commander of the right time in place for offensive action
is a decisive factor in the success of the operation.
New miracle inferiority does not necessarily commit a command to a defensive attitude.
Superior hostile numbers may be overcome through greater mobility, better armament, and
equipment, more effective fire, higher morale, and better leadership.
Superior leadership often enables a numerically inferior force to be stronger at the point
of decisive action.
Leadership is the most important thing on the battlefield.
So legit.
Mobility.
Arm better armament and equipment, more effective fire, higher morale.
Isn't it interesting?
Everyone would think better armament, right?
Everyone would think better equipment.
Most people would think better, effective fire, but higher morale.
Just having higher morale is an element in achieving victory even if you're an
a numerically inferior position.
A strategically defensive mission is frequently most effectively executed through offensive
action.
It is often necessary for an inferior force to strike at an early moment in order to secure
initial advantages or to prevent itself from being overwhelmed by a growing superior
or the enhanced forces.
If you run a company and you're the smaller company that you're competing with your
competitors, being defensive is going to get you killed.
You're going to get run over by this bigger company because they're going to use the
resources and size to bulldoze you.
You have to be poised to strike, go on the offensive.
The first opportunity you can.
That is the right opportunity to do that.
It's interesting in jujitsu.
The same thing happens.
One of the best things to do if you're on the defensive is attack something and then
all of a sudden you can turn the tables really really quick if you're lucky.
Concentration of superior forces both on the ground and in the air at the decisive place
in time and their employment in a decisive direction creates conditions essential to victory.
So again this is prioritizing actually what are you doing?
You're concentrating.
The resources, your people, your manpower, you're concentrating everything at the right
time.
Such concentration requires strict economy and the strength of forces assigned to secondary
missions.
What does that mean?
If you focus on other things, if you don't prioritize next to you, you're going to fall
apart.
Detachments during combat are justifiable only when the execution of tasks assigns them
contributes directly to success in the main battle.
So I got a little note there, never split forces.
I loved it when tilt was on and tilt was talking about he's like yeah, so I had one group
in the valley and one group in the tree line or something like that and I was kind of like
I was all bummed out and I was all nervous and I was all sad because I always preached
don't split forces and I was like man I never really liked to split forces.
He goes I only did it two times.
It's like yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, because when you, well, there's all kinds
of confusion that happened there but then this isn't really talking about not splitting
forces about this is talking about is if you start peeling people off to do other things,
it better really still contribute to the main effort.
Yep.
Surprise must be sought throughout the action by every means and by every echelonic command.
It may be obtained by fire as well as by movement.
Otherwise it's produced through measures which either deny information to the enemy or
positively deceive him as to our dispositions of movements and plants terrain which appears
to impose great difficulties on operations may often be utilized against surprise.
Surprise is furthered by variation in the means and methods employed in combat and by
rapidity of execution.
When Brian Stan was on he was like he loved to talk about that operational tempo and that's
what this is talking about in that last sentence.
How quickly can you execute?
If you can turn quickly and you can get back out there that's going to surprise the enemy.
Going into Ramadi in boats that was a terrain that the enemy didn't expect the boys
to come in like that's what's going to happen.
There was other times where guys went on long patrols.
The enemy didn't think we're going to be out there.
Surprise finds the enemy in a state of mental, moral or physical unpreparedness.
Every effort should be made to deny him to take effective countermeasures.
The effect of surprise may be lost through solitary methods of execution.
To guard against surprise requires a correct estimate of enemy capabilities, adequate security
measures effective reconnaissance and readiness for action of all units.
Every unit takes the necessary measures for its own local ground and air security, provision
for the security of flanks and rear is of special importance.
It also requires humility to recognize that you don't necessarily know exactly what your
enemy is going to do and might want to think that they are more capable than you think
they might be and you have to have the noted recognize.
They might do something that we might anticipate and a humble leader doesn't get complacent
what the enemy can and will do.
They'll never do that.
That's exactly what they're going to do if you're not.
Absolutely.
Command is the authority.
This section is called Command.
Command is the authority which an individual in the military service lawfully exercises
over-sabordinates by virtue of rank or assignment.
That's what Command is.
By I lawfully outrank you and therefore you have to obey me.
That is, as this, Command and leadership are inseparable.
Whether the forces larger small, whether the functions of Command are complex or simple,
the Commander must be the controlling head.
His must be the mastermind and from him must flow the energy and impulse which are to
animate all under him.
So that's a little bit interesting.
Then we get into this.
That's when I was talking earlier about how there's always that difference between people
that think, hey, good leadership means these people will just listen to me because I have
authority over them.
And there's people that realize the truth which is that's not the way you want to lead at
all, which we will get into here.
Decision as to specific course of action is responsibility of the Commander alone.
While he may accept advice and suggestions from any of his subordinates, he alone is responsible
for what the unit does or fails to do.
And I think that was really the crux of what that last statement was trying to say is like,
listen, you're going to have a platoon chief, a platoon sergeant, whatever, a company first
sergeant, a chief operating officer or chief operations officer that's going to give you
advice.
It's going to help you make decisions, but if you're the boss, it's on you.
And at the end, the idea that the leader, the Commander is responsible for the outcome
no matter what, I think what they're getting at.
I mean, I hear that in their words that I don't like the exact other way that they say it,
but I'm glad that they're making that clear distinction that Commander leadership are
two different things.
Commander's the structure.
And we all understand that military, I know who my boss is, the org-chargenetic company defines
the CEO, the CEO, the frontline supervisor, but the leadership component, a good commander,
not only am I going to take advice from other people, there are times that I simply won't
be where they are.
And I need them to make those decisions and lead their team to end up being wrong, it's
still my responsibility.
And that piece of it, I think, is 100% sure.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's, we'll dig into it a little bit more here in a second.
This continues on, which is this is getting into exactly what you were just saying, a willingness
to accept responsibility is the foremost trait of leadership.
So we wrote an entire book about that called Extreme Ownership.
And willingness to accept responsibility is the foremost trait of leadership.
Every individual from the highest commander to the lowest private must always remember that
inaction and neglect of opportunities will warrant even more severe censure than an error
of judgment in the action taken.
So this is something that, through inferior, definitely, hit on almost word for word.
That's worse to not do anything than it is to make a call and try and execute.
And you have bad judgment.
So those are bold statements.
Continue on the criterion by which a commander judges the soundness of his own decision
is whether it will further the intentions of the higher commander.
So there you go.
That makes it really easy to make decisions out of the battlefield.
If you come back to me and say, hey, jockel, this is what I did.
I know that we were trying to push west and I had an opportunity to get on this null.
I know it was outside our limit of advance, but it gave me a really good feel the fire over
the west.
That's why I went there and I'm like, you know what?
Ended up not working out the way we wanted it to, but I'm glad that you did it.
Okay?
Because at least you went for it.
As opposed to, well, you know, I know we were going west, but I decided, you know, maybe
it would be smarter for us to go east.
And that's why I backed my force off, right?
You can't just ignore the overall commander.
The overall commander in the higher position.
You've got to support his intentions.
So as long and what that means is for the higher commander, you've got to make sure that
your intentions are known.
That's why we have commanders intent.
Totally.
As to accept responsibility must not manifest itself in a disregard of orders on the basis
of a mere probability of having better knowledge of the situation in the higher commander.
The subordinate unit is a part of a tactical team employed by the higher commander to accomplish
a certain mission and any independence on the part of the subordinate commander must conform
to the general plan for the unit as a whole.
So that's why we have parameters.
That's what decentralized command.
That's why when I'm always going off about, hey, for decentralized command to work, you
have to make sure everyone understands what the mission is, what the goal is, what the
end state is, what the parameters are that people allow to work with it.
That's what you need to do.
And that's what they're talking about here.
Continuing, the commander's mission is contained in the orders which he has received.
Nevertheless, a commander of a subordinate unit cannot plead absence of orders or the non-receive
orders as an excuse for inactivity in a situation where action is where action on part
on his part is essential.
Or where a change in the situation upon which the issued orders were based, renders such
orders impractical or impossible of execution.
So lack of orders lead in absence of orders lead.
I didn't know, nobody told me what to do.
And that same responsibility for the leader of recognizing that he has to train his people
to be able to lead in the absence of orders is 100% going to happen all the time in those
situations.
And this is so scary, especially from a military perspective.
It's really scary because if this sounds like could easily just just devolve into total
mayhem, right?
Hey, look, just because you don't have orders doesn't mean you should sit around and
do nothing.
And people, there's some people who think, well, I don't want my damn for some, you
know, corporal, fire team leader out there, making calls.
Yes, you do.
You have to.
As long as he understands from you what the intent is, then he's cleared hot.
Yeah.
And you'll figure out the right thing to do.
I had 13 guys in my Anglical team in her body.
13.
And I always think, man, this is 13 guys.
This is a small group.
This is easy.
And when I got there immediately, immediately, I think the second day I'm there and like,
man, I got to split these teams up.
There's just too many missions, too much to do.
I simply can't do this.
So 13 people I got to do four here or four here.
And I split them up, nine, maybe 10 of the 13 guys were on their very first deployment.
And look, I'll be honest with you.
The first time I watched another gun truck go off the base without me and like, man, I
don't like this.
I didn't like that.
But not only was it necessary.
Obviously, he was completely necessary because the the optempo in her body was just
completely out of control.
I could have used 30 more people if I had him.
But the reality is is that if you train them and they actually understand what they're
there to get accomplished, they can go lead without you being there and you need them to.
And they have to go do it.
And yeah, as a leader, it's it is a little hard to let them go decentralized command.
The ultimate culmination of these laws, which is what you want.
It is a little scary and it's a little hard.
But you can't, there's no other alternative.
What it should, what that fear should do, that fear should compel you to make sure that
everyone understands what the commanders intend is, make sure to understand what the parameters
are.
Yes.
Make sure they understand the rules of engagement.
Make sure they understand everything that's in your head.
That's what it should compel you to do because it is scary.
Yeah.
And that you've done all the other things required to get to that.
I have incredibly strong relationships.
They understand every single thing I need them to understand.
And they know that we have to make hard decisions on the battlefield and prioritize.
They're going to do the ones that greatly, the most impact on the emission of the
General College, I actually have to follow the laws of combat if I want to get the decentralized
command.
Sure.
Continuing on, if the situation does not permit communication with the superior commander
and the subordinate commander is familiar with the general plan of operations or the mission
of the whole command, he should take appropriate action and report situation as early as
practical.
Which is what exactly what your guys did and what you did with them.
The situations that confront a commander and war are of infinite variety.
And despite of the most careful planning and anticipation, unexpected obstacles, frictions
and mistakes are common occurrences in battle.
So that's right, things are going to go wrong.
A commander must school himself to regard these events as commonplace and not permit them
to frustrate him in the accomplishment of the mission.
Yeah.
What spins me up?
Nothing.
Everyone's going to screw up.
I'm going to screw up.
You're going to screw up.
The team leaders are going to screw up.
The two and start.
It's going to screw up.
That's what's going to happen.
I know he's going to do unexpected things.
Guess what's going to happen in your life?
Things are going to go wrong.
The deal is not going to get closed.
The kids are going to get sick.
The cars are going to crap.
These things are going to happen.
They're going to happen.
It's the way life is.
No one's rolling through life.
Not hitting speed bumps.
It's not happening.
Don't let them throw you off.
Now here we go.
Personal conferences between the higher commander and his subordinates who are to execute
his orders may at times be advisable that the latter may arrive at a correct understanding
of the plans and intentions of their superior.
They continue his own.
Commanders do not justify their decisions to subordinates.
Where do they seek the approve love subordinates for their actions?
Now when I read that, like the other one that we were both kind of like, yes, I'm not
sure.
When I read that right there, I was like, here's my notes.
You see what they say?
It says wrong.
That's wrong.
That's just wrong.
I'll read it again.
So we know what's wrong.
It starts off with something cool.
Hey, personal conferences between the higher commander and his subordinates who are to execute
his orders may at times be advisable.
You go on a meet with your people so that the latter may arrive at the correct understanding
of the plans and intentions of their superior.
Yes, meet with your people to almost going on.
But then it says this, I kind of have to change voices for this one a little bit.
Commanders do not justify their decisions to subordinates.
No, do they seek the approval of their subordinates for their actions?
So I highlighted that circle and I wrote wrong.
I was really pissed when I read it.
And I was like, you know what?
Let's see if anything changed.
So I went to the 1944 manual and in 1944, that there are very limited changes in this
section.
In fact, mostly what is different between 1944 and 1941 is they have a massive sections
on air power on how it's going to be used.
So I started all that stuff in the 1944 version.
They completely eliminate that sentence.
Yeah, good.
They completely eliminate that sentence because guess what?
As a commander, you are absolutely trying to explain your decisions to your subordinates.
You want them to understand why you're making a decision.
You want them to never mind to prove you want them to actually just totally embrace
and love and probably hopefully even come up with that decision themselves.
There's probably some element in there of this idea of decisiveness.
And the language is probably trying to get to something that they were thinking about
that was clearly not explained correctly.
But this idea that you don't owe your people and explanation is crazy.
It's crazy.
And as a matter of fact, if you can't explain it in a way that's really compelling and
they have them go, oh boss, got it.
I'm on board.
You're doing it wrong.
You actually don't understand it well enough.
And if you have to leverage the, oh you don't understand what I'm saying.
Okay, just do your job because I'm in charge of you.
It's just wrong.
Yeah, period.
And it's like this stood out for me.
This is not in the German manual at all.
It's not in there.
There's nothing that says anything close to that in German manual.
So what that told me is, that's why I started thinking about this pull between people
that leaders that are like, hey listen, bottom line, there's people got a dude to tell
me dude.
That's what there was a guy in the room.
I wonder if there's that guy there.
So hey, this is 41 now, I think, you know, little piece of, you know, hey, there's
this piece of this, this time that they didn't really quite get it.
The 44 guys are thinking, well, what have we been doing for the last three years?
Get rid of that because that's crap.
It doesn't work.
Exactly.
This room in this room, there was some pug, some rear echelon dude that was sitting
there going, hey, you know, the bottom line though, I understand that we want, you know,
people got to understand.
But the bottom line is you don't have to go and justify your decisions to your subordinates.
You know, that you don't need to seek approval.
Yeah.
You tell them what to do and they go and damn do it.
That's the way it's got to be in the end, you're in charge.
So if they can't, you know, go back and forth for a while, but sooner than you got
to put your foot down and let them do those in charge.
You got to just got to let them have it.
And like you said, you can you imagine they reconvene after three years of war.
And they say, you know what?
Who wrote, who's the pug that wrote that?
We're not going to rewrite it or change it.
You can't just rid of it.
And that sentence.
I wasn't sure if I wanted to, we were actually going to cover this manual, but when I
got to that, I was like, oh, this is all, this makes it all worthwhile.
This makes it all worthwhile.
Because you understand that after three years of war, this should be a notification to
leaders around the world that if you think that you can just order people and that's going
to work out for you, you're wrong, you're wrong.
And you know, you, the way you worded something, I got to jump back to it.
Because you said, you said, if you, something like if you can't explain to your people
while you're doing something, then you're doing it wrong.
I want to make it clear that when you say you're doing it wrong, you're talking about
what you're telling them to do is wrong.
Because if I say, hey, Dave, we want to assault this target from the West.
And you're like, why?
And I say, well, because that's the best spot.
And you go, well, there's a channelized area.
You're going to have to go through.
And I say, no, we're going to go from the West.
And you say, but there's an open area here from the South, where we can get cover on this
to high ground, it will be, and I say, no, we're going from the West.
And my only recourse is to say, no, Dave, I'm the boss.
You're going from the West.
You're doing it wrong.
Yeah.
Not just my leadership.
You're doing the thing that you're trying to get done is wrong.
Yeah.
So worthwhile.
Continues on.
And you got to look at the 44.
Like, it's almost like, here's the next one after this.
In 1941, it was all troops assigned to the execution of a distinct mission should be placed
under one command.
The next, the very next line, after they eliminate that all troops assigned to the execution
it's literally the same.
They went through this thing and was like, hey, this is a pretty solid get rid of that
line.
Who, what turg, wrote that?
So check.
All troops assigned to the execution of a distinct mission should be placed under one command
to function as a task force for the duration of the operation.
So long as a commander can exercise effective command, he does not disturb the established
chain of command in his force.
In some situations, condition dictate that attachments belongs to be made to support
in the commands.
So this is something that, it's a little bit of this sometimes, like a group, a task unit,
a battalion, a company gets assigned.
And if the leader, if the overall leader doesn't have the wherewithal to say, okay, you
know what?
Task unit bruiser, you're supporting and task unit alpha, you're, you guys are running
this.
And the task unit bruiser guy, the task unit bruiser guy, the task unit bruiser guy,
said, cool, hey, alpha, what do you need?
So often it's like, man, I should have been the one maintenance.
That should be me.
And I remember a couple times early in task unit bruiser while I was trying to be trying
to hang out with a fair fairy and be like, well, you know, we fake it.
It's like, no, life you're running this one, Seth, your support, or Seth, you're running
this one.
That's the way it is.
I think I tried that one time, like, oh, you guys can each be over here.
No, stupid.
And if your guys actually believe in the mission, it's no fact.
It's never, they don't care at all.
Roger that boss, I'm on it.
Yeah.
What do you need, man?
Get it?
The big picture if you'd explain the mission and they buy into it, you could put
that guy as a support element forever.
Yep.
And he's like, no factor.
No matter what you need.
I will support all day long.
What do you need?
Not to mention half the time you go out there and the situation completely changes
and the supporting effort becomes the main effort.
Of course.
Isn't it crazy though if you're working for me and I go, hey, Dave, you're supporting
effort and you're like awesome.
Got it.
And then the next night, I'm like, hey, Dave, you're supporting effort and you say,
awesome, got it.
And then I say, hey, you know what?
You're going to be supporting effort again.
You're like, bring it.
Yeah.
I'm ready.
We're getting this dialed.
Hey, man, I need you to do supporting effort again.
And you say, Roger that, we're already.
So if that's your attitude, that's awesome.
And eventually I go, hey, you know what, Dave?
You're running this then.
Guess it's going to be the main effort.
Now, if I go, hey, Dave, you're the supporting effort.
You go, okay.
Okay.
And then the next night I go, hey, you're supporting effort again.
Why?
I was supporting effort last night.
I immediately hate you.
Yes.
Yeah.
I immediately go, bro, is your ego really that out of control that on this
random piece of paper, somewhere on this particular operation.
On an operation that we have no idea where it's going to go or what's
going to happen.
You could end up being the element that's in the big giant fire fight that
needs to step up.
And you want your so concerned about that right now.
That's where your priorities are.
That that's where we're at.
Okay, cool.
No did.
I will never make you.
I'll never put you in charge of anything ever.
Yeah.
You know what?
Nobody ever asked me in 23 years of conducting missions in the Marine
Corps.
Hey, were you assigned the main effort to read the support?
Nobody cares.
And yeah, it's the blend of the ego and just, hey, what's the best way to
what's the thing I can do to help accomplish the mission?
I mean, I don't care what it is.
And by the way, if you and I meet and I say, hey, Dave, you know, I've been
assigned supporter, you know, to you, which is kind of crap because I think my
my, my company's better than your company, but whatever, that's what the
boss decided.
So tell me what you need and I'll do it.
Like just think about that.
And now when I say, hey, Dave, you know, we shouldn't do it like that.
You will, you won't listen to a damn thing I say.
But if I say, hey, Dave, hey, man, we're here to support.
And if you need anything, tell me and let's get it done.
And then we're now in a planning, I go, hey, what do you think about us setting up
over here?
You know, a little bit different than your thoughts, but what do you think of that?
And you go, hmm, well, that's actually not a bad idea.
So I have a little bit of humility and all of a sudden I can actually influence the
situation a thousand times more than if I go in there with my chess boat out and my
ego barking like a rabbit dog.
Yeah.
And the worst part about that is if you do that, your idea might actually still be better
than mine.
And I won't listen to you.
Of course.
It's just a freaking disaster.
Just get on board for the entire team to win and it works out.
Get on board for the big win.
Add me to the situation and need tactical operation, the commander must quickly
evaluate all available information bearing on his task, estimate the situation and reach
a decision.
The commander's estimate of situation is based on the mission of the unit.
The means available to him and to the enemy, the conditions in his area of operations including
the train and weather, the probable effects of various lines of action on future operations.
The bases of these factors, he considers the lines of action opened to him.
of successful will accomplish his mission and the lines of action with of which the enemy
is physically capable and which can interfere with such accomplishment. He analyzes the opposing
lines of action one against another to arrive at conclusions as to the probability of success
for each of his own lines of action. There's a lot of words. Check all the different courses
of action. See what the potential outcomes are. Move forward with one of them. On the basis of this
analysis, he considers the relative advantages and disadvantages of his own lines of action
and selects this line of action which most promises success regardless of what the enemy may do.
If two or more lines of action appear equally promising, he chooses the one that will most
favor future action. Pretty straightforward. The estimate often requires rapid thinking with consideration
limited to essential factors. In campaign, exact conclusions concerning the enemy can seldom be drawn.
To delay action and emergency because of insufficient information shows a lack of energetic
leadership and may result in lost opportunities. The commander must take calculated risks.
I read all that so I could say that last thing. Oudalu, strategic versus tactical. If you don't
do anything in a tactical situation, you're going to lose. Then you're not going to know everything.
No. Ever. Ever. You do not know the potential outcomes. Even if you have the best intelligence,
it's going to change. Continue on. Considering the enemy's possible lines of action, the commander must
guard against unwarranted belief that he has discovered the enemy's intentions and against ignoring
other lines of action over to the enemy. This is what you said earlier. If you think you know what
the enemy's going to do, you're wrong. Don't fall into that ego trap. Even when the weight of
evidence warrants the belief that the enemy is committed to a definite line of action,
the commander must bear in mind that it changes the enemy's plans may occur at any time.
That's the way it happens. You gotta stay humble. The estimate of the situation culminates in the decision.
Once a decision, a decision once made is not changed without some compelling reason. In combat,
the will and energy of the commander must persist until the mission is accomplished. Estimation
of the situation is, however, a continuous process and changed conditions may at any time
call for a new decision. Two stubborn adherents to a previous decision may result in costly delay,
loss of opportunity for decisive action or outright failure. The troop and fear and
covered this very, very well. Sometimes, yeah, it's this. You want to stick with your plan,
but you're constantly assessing to see if your plan was the right plan. If your decision was the
right decision and if it's not, change. That's the utilip. Impits are happening all the time.
As soon as I learned, hey, there's enough inputs. Tell me, I got to change. I got to do something different.
And you better have the ability to maneuver. When you're making those, you may that decision
you're taking action. You have to preserve the ability to maneuver because it's going to change
period. Yeah. That's that over commitment. It starts to talk about terrain here.
The part of the commander's estimate dealing with terrain often exercises decisive influence upon
a decision in plan. The proper evaluation and utilization of the terrain reduce the disadvantage of
incomplete information of the enemy. The more important features to be considered in evaluating terrain
include not only natural ground forms such as mountain ridges, streams, bodies of water woods,
and open spaces, but also artificial features such as roads, railroads, and towns. The commander's
seeks always to utilize the terrain to his own advantage and to the enemy's disadvantage. Now,
that's one of those things. Well, I definitely, for me, as a leader, when I, actually,
as a leader, but more as an instructor, the difference between someone that sucks as a small
element unit leader, small unit leader. Someone that doesn't do it right and someone that does it well,
is someone that doesn't write utilizes the terrain and someone that doesn't, they don't. Yeah.
So that's why I put that in there. But there's much more to it than that. And that is the fact that
when you are leading people, when you're interacting with human beings, there's terrain that needs
to be accounted for. The terrain isn't bridges, streams, and mountains. The terrain is ego.
It's agendas. It's personalities. It's nuances that it's idiosyncrasies that people have.
That's the terrain. That's so important. And it's that every single person you're
interacting with is going to be a little bit different. And those idiosyncrasies and all those
little small components, a good leader understands all of those different things. So the idea of what
terrain is in their mind is all of that together. Yeah. I think you were setting me up for meeting
and you gave me like an eight minute brief on the scenario that was happening. Like, hey,
this is what's going on. This is this guy. This where it comes from. This is what he likes. This is the
problem. He's had. Here's what I think he wants to do. And this is the approach I would take.
And I was like, check, what did you just brief me on? You didn't mention trails and mountains,
but you gave me the terrain brief that I was about to walk into. That's what it is. And then
then when I walk into that meeting, instead of me being a leader that doesn't know what's happening,
all of a sudden, I'm a leader that understands the terrain and can make the right maneuvers.
No, you're terrain. Think about what, and really what this boils down to you from a
leadership perspective in the business world is think of identify your terrain, right? Identify it.
Let's let's talk about what that is and see how we can use it to our advantage.
Next section is called conduct in battle. The commander's decision for his unit is a
whole and the missions to subordinate units in support of the decision are communicated to
subordinates by clearing concise orders, which give them freedom of action appropriate to their
professional knowledge, to the situation, to their dependability, and to the team play desired.
So again, I think there was a poge in the room. And sometimes the other guys were like,
hey, bro, no, freedom of action is what these guys need. And they just had to like,
sometimes we're add this stuff while the poge is out getting coffee. I think the poge was probably
the senior guy in a couple times, he just overwrote him. But they just, they just like,
he, they sent him to get, they went to a meeting and they did like several sections.
That sentence is the exact opposite of what that said. Yeah. You know, a couple pages back.
It's exact opposite thing. Freedom of action. Clearing concise orders, which gives them freedom of action,
use that as your guide. Next, after providing for the issuance of orders, the commander places
himself where he can best control the course of action in an exerted leadership. His command post
affords the advantage of established signal communication. When opportunity offers and when his
presence at the command post is not urgently required, he visits subordinates, commanders, and his
troops in order to inspire competence, and to assure himself that his orders are understood
and properly executed. Yep, you got it. The Navy, they started calling that deck plate leadership.
Do you guys ever hear that? Say, you need to get out. You need to get out with the troops.
You can't sit in the tariff conditioning space when you're got, you know, your, your
boasts made down there in the well deck. Right. And it's 180 degrees in the well deck
with diesel fumes. Yeah.
Whenever the commander leaves his command post, he should orient his staff as to further plans to be
made or measures to be taken in anticipation of future condensings and should inform his staff
where he can be reached. Yep. During the decisive phase of battle, the place of the commander is
near the critical point of action. Not in it, but near it, a commander influences the course of
subsequent action by his leadership by the use of his reserves, by the concentration of artillery
and other sporting fires, and by the employment of combat aviation and armored units.
The duration of attack cooperation can seldom be predicted. Successful engagements,
engagements, sometimes progress so slowly that gains made are not immediately imperant.
A parent, other times they progress so fast that gains made can be capitalized only by the
most aggressive and far-sighted leadership. Troops are used up rapidly in decisive phases of combat.
This attrition must be anticipated by the commander and his staff who take timely measures for
replacement of men, unit transport weapons, and for replenishment of ammunition and other supplies.
When the situation permits troops which have been heavily engaged, are rested and reorganized
before being assigned new and important mission.
The staff assists the commander to the extent that he may require by providing information data
and advice by preparing detailed plans in order to enhance the direction by exercising
such supervision over the execution of his orders as he may prescribe. A staff officer as such
does not exercise command. The staff may be divided into two groups. The general staff and the
special staff in large units, these two staff groups are separate and distinct and small units
that merge into each other. And one staff officer frequently is charged with the duties
pertaining to both staff groups. Now the whole reason that I read the last two three paragraphs
was so I could read this. In every headquarters there is a constant tendency to multiply
personnel, expand the functions of staff administration and accumulate records and office equipment.
And then this is one of the only thing that is italicized in this book. It says,
the commander must avoid this expansion. He must organize his headquarters so as to maintain
its readiness for improvement. So again, this is when the pope walked out of the room, they're like
let the pope wrote all those other three paragraphs. He was in like the staff this and the staff
commander and then these guys were like, listen, they're going to try and expand the staff.
You don't need it. I was always surprised like there's a section on the staff.
I was like, oh, do we need to put that? And I've been listening to even some of the other things,
there's something that he said earlier even about that point of friction. I think really what he was
saying is you'll burn through resources more quickly. Which is true. I understand that because that's
where the culminating event is and that means you know your people have to be cycled through more
quickly and you have to pull them out. There's a part of that that's true. For sure, the point of
friction is going to require the most resources and the most energy and you're going to exert yourself
the most. But there's a piece in there that probably needs to be worth expanding on a little bit
is that the point of friction is actually if you're prepared and brief for it, those people actually
have the most endurance because that's where they want to be. That's where they've been
anticipating. That's the entire thing this whole build has been about as to get there and they're
the most involved and the most engaged. Those people also have the most endurance. It's the places
where there's at least amount going on, the least amount of friction where you feel you're
making the least impact. Those are the people that are the first ones to really struggle because
they feel disconnected and it's not 100% wrong the way they set it. But I wanted there to be a piece
of saying, oh by the way, everybody wants to be at the point of friction on your team if you
prepared and built them and those people can actually endure the longest. You still need to pull
some of those folks off the line. You still need to assess how they're doing, but the people in most
engaged are typically the people that are most willing to stay engaged the longest and that piece
was missing in that last section there. And as this piece time hint to all these comments that are
in there and like the point of friction, you would have to choke me out to get me away from that,
to give me a chance to rest and to refit and again, it doesn't mean that you just let them go
in the red forever. But there's just a part missing in there that this guy we're talking about,
whoever this guy was, the poke. Yeah, the poke. The RAMF had a lot of influence on that. I'm like,
what about the other part that says, oh by the way, that's everybody really wants to be.
Yeah, because that guy doesn't want to be there. No. And he's like, all those guys need to break,
like, I dare you to pull me off the line when things are at their most intense. Good luck
getting me off the line. The next section is called combat orders. The authority to issue orders
is an inherent function of command orders are normally issued to next subordinate commanders.
By passing the normal channels of command is resorted only to an urgent situations. It's such
cases both commander issuing the command or receiving the order should notify intermediate
commanders of its purport as soon as possible. So, trying not to jump the chain of command.
Well, orders may be either complete or fragmentary. The order is complete when it covers all the
essential aspects of the phases of operations. Complete orders include missions to all subordinate
units charged with the execution of tactical operations and carrying out the commander's plan.
So that's a complete order. Fragmentary orders. And by the way, there's no distinction between
these two things in the cupid funeral. So I think the pug was like no orders have to be detailed.
And the guys were like, okay, yep, you're Roger that, sir. But, you know, there's something
else that can happen maybe possibly like we call them. They made up fragmentary orders.
Fractory orders are used when speeding delivery and execution is imperative. Guess who it's
one you're going to do the most? Yeah, Frag orders are issued successfully as the situation
develops and as decisions are made and consist of separate instructions to one of the force
ofordinate units prescribed, prescribing each the part each is to play in the operation
in the separate phases thereof. This procedure will be usual in divisions and smaller units
that pugs knock that one in there. Fractory orders may be either all or written.
They are concise but not at the expense of clarity and omission of essential information. That's very,
very clear in the in the troupon funeral. Instructions issued in fragmentary orders may be repeated
in a complete field order or in an annex of considered desirable order should be originated sufficiently
sufficiently early and transmitted in such form as to permit subordinate commanders the maximum
superior periods to recon order to estimate their own situations to issue their orders
and to prepare their troops for the contemplated operation. In many situations, it may be necessary
or desirable to order a worn of impending operations warning order, a warning order contains information
which enables subordinate commanders to make preparations for a contemplated operation.
It's principal purposes to gain the time for preparatory measures and to conserve the energy of
the troops. So that is in the troupon funeral. The idea of a warning order and warning orders are
awesome. The be prepared to. Here's what we're probably going to do. It's going to look something like
this peck this gear think about that area of operations. And if I was going to take away something
from this that long section there if I'm a leader at a business or a key leader in an organization,
the takeaway for me is it may feel like you at the top of the workshop needs to
talk to most give the most information actually what you should do is the time that you should
maximize is your subordinate leaders going to figure out what they need to do to support your
overall mission. The least amount of information you can pass. It it it has to be the right amount of
information. But the more time you can give them to figure out their particular situation to support
that the better. Less talking more time for your people to go dear their job as opposed to let's
get everybody in the room. I'm going to talk all day long about every single detail and not give them
any time to go figure out that's that's opposite. So the frigo in the warning o that's probably 95% of
the way you're going to communicate is leader. Yeah once at your annual conference for for sure yeah
we need to spend some time we'll do that but that's not going to happen on day to day and the
West you talk is probably the better for your team because it gives them more time to lead.
Yeah and those those detailed plans are going to change. They're going to change. Yeah. So
you can you can if you got the relationships and you got the well trained people and you've got the
trust built man the orders are so freaking simple the give and and that was the thing with and I
didn't say this but that's the whole jumping the chain to command thing is what you really want
there are time look don't jump the chain to command if you can vote it for sure that's a good
blanket statement but the reality is is that are there times a jump the chain? Yes there are and the
best thing I have when I jump the chain to command is whoever that leader that I bypassed to give
direct orders or information to their folks if I got a really good relationship and a long history
of them they don't even care there's no factor and I say and I'm so about hey Jaco you weren't
around I had to make this thing happen this what we did in a while you're like good ago it sounds
good it's the pug it's the guy who really likes the chain to command so you shouldn't bypass me
to speak to my man is the guy who's most offended and it's probably the hardest relationship
because what that guy cares about the most is his positional authority and there's so much in there
on even the jump in the chain is you have a good relationship you can jump the channel all day long
and I'm not saying you should go out of your way to do it but sometimes it's required and strong
relationships and like yeah no factor thanks for giving the heads up my my guys back brief me anyway
we're all good I'm all in yeah they told me what they're doing I got it appreciate it thanks yeah
no factor people that are insecure about their leadership capabilities are the ones that really what
that's the that's the false the poll the lieutenant kernel poll I think he's actually a
kernel this poke kernel poke yeah no he's the senior guy yeah he's the senior guy and
yeah kernel poggies in the house for some of us orders an order should not trespass upon the
province of a subordinate it should contain everything that the subordinate must know to carry out
his mission but nothing more I really like that order should not trespass upon the province of a
subordinate yes like you got to let him run his thing tell him what he needs and then give him
all the time in the world you can't get let him go lead orders must be clear and explicit
and as brief as as is consistent with clarity short sentences are easily understood
you know they're like hey kernel kernel poke do you mind if we just say that short sentences
are easy to understand because some of the guys might not get that and he's like whoa I'd like
to talk to you about that for a while clarity is more important in technique the more urgent
the situation the greater the need for consciousness for conciseness in the order
think about that the more urgent the situation the greater the need for conciseness in the order
think it was Mark Twain that said I wanted to write you a short note but I didn't have time
so I'm writing you this long letter which is easier than writing something short and concise
I come back you tell the story a lot on the podcast and it's the bus that door just three
it's just this the simplest and the reason you have to say it like that is because there's actually
not any more time than you need to talk about hey well I feel like the enemy might be maneuvering
bus that door and they go and they go do that and then problem solved totally
any statement of reasons for measures adopted should be limited to what is necessary to obtain
an intelligent cooperation from the subordinates
I'm reading that one again any statement of reasons for measures adopted should be limited to
what is necessary to obtain intelligent cooperation from the subordinates there's a little bit
there's a little argument about that one because the the poll kernel poll was like they don't
you need to tell what to do you tell what to do and the other guys like listen you need to give
them some information on why this is happening and he's like no you don't and they said yes you
do and finally they wrote this statement it compromised yeah the compromise is like at least let them
know give them what's limited so that they have have the information and can understand why it's
happening now there are times when leaders give too much information and it overwhelms the machine gunner
who's like bro tell me what my field of fire is for sure you tell me that again
detailed instructions for a variety of contingencies or prescriptions that are a matter of training
do not inspire confidence and have no place in order
trivial and meaningless expressions divide responsibility and lead to the adoption of half measures
by subordinate by subordinates trivial and meaningless expressions they're actually telling you how to
write and how to speak yeah trivial and meaningless expressions divide responsibility and lead to the
adoption of half measures by subordinates exaggerated and bombastic phrases invite ridicule and
weaken the force of an order you cannot do that you cannot use exaggerated and bombastic phrases
what what happens is you think you're not getting the message apart to your people yeah you think
that they don't get it if we don't do this it's going to destroy the company and you're thinking
the go I better pay attention and actually all that does is just undermine your message like bro yeah
hang on that it's not going to destroy the company if you're the leader that if you can have
these limited recognized you're the one that covers all these little detailed points your people are
tuning you out they're tuning you out and actually what's going to happen is they're going to
miss the important things so you just need to say just the important things yeah what you do is
you paint yourself into a corner totally because if you're talking and you're saying this and
you're saying that and then you're saying this and then you're saying that and then you finally
want to say something important you want to make sure everyone pays attention so you put an
exaggeration or you make it a bombastic phrase and then what you're end up doing is now you're
making exaggerations and bombastic phrases all the time they have the impact and you're the
you end up the the the boy that cried once last muster somebody asked you a question and the
answer was basically kind of like how much talking how much listening and you're like 98%
listening 2% talking and you pause and you're like now that I've thought about it that's the
perfect ratio is just the least amount of things you can say to pass the peran information and then
stop talking and if it's the the only way to compel your people to do it is that the risk is
total destruction then the one in a million times that actually it could be total destruction
they actually don't respond the way they need to they don't care because you've been saying that
this could crush us this could destroy us like the one time that's that's true they've filtered
you out years ago yeah yeah 98% of the time use your ears 2% of the time use your mouth
I I would not talk on the radio in task being a bruiser as a particular I would not talk on the
radio when I talked everybody listened totally and same thing you know when when one of
two commanders are given a brief I'm not talking I got three things to say at the end maybe two
here's what's important that's what you can do think about boom
expressions such as attack vigorously if used in orders are not only verbose and meaning
less but 10 to week in the force of subsequent orders in which such expressions are not there
that's exactly what you were to say like you're gonna run out of adjectives bro
this is critically important yeah yeah yeah there's the hierarchy of adjectives and you're
gonna reach the end of it which is gonna suck next orders to prescribe only so far as conditions
can be for scene orders which attempt to regulate matters too far in the future resultant frequent
changes frequent changes in orders overload the means of signal communication cause confusion
misunderstanding impose needless hardship on the troops and injure them around so there you go
that's freaking epic right there totally you you sit there and you're trying to
what I just said this deep we're gonna come out with a detail plan of how it's gonna go from day one
to day 19 no you're not you're not and no one is and it it pisses your guys off
for sure pisses them off for sure but I learned this lesson so I was on an argument deployment
which meant I was on a ship and we were planning for some mission and at first they said okay you're
gonna launch from you're gonna launch from the boats the the the rib boats the rigid
hold flatable boats you load your zodiacs on there to put them in the water and you guys will
go do your mission and so we start prepping for that and then they come back and they say
actually sorry our bus you're gonna use helicopters so we're like okay now this is a totally
different rigging exercise I mean completely different we have to we so we have to bring the zodiacs
which we had rigged for boat launch we had to completely break them down and now rigged them to
go inside of a CH 46 and get kicked out the back and then we jump in the water we go this takes us
I'm not even kidding this takes six hours of hard labor and our five and a half comes back
actually you're not using he loves your using boats again and there was like borderline just
total breakdown of Chay to compare like are you kidding me because guess what we hadn't planned
anything we hadn't done any of our personal gear prep all we were doing was and and when you're on an
arg like you you go check out bringing a 55 horsepower engine from the flight deck next to the ribs
down into the well back you know and then you do that with every piece of gear that you have
well it it was just stupid and and of course this was a three minute conversation this is a
decision a three minute conversation and a four-second decision that my upper chain of command
above my patoon commanders you know was like oh it'd be good to get him some work in a he loves
okay well yeah let's get the he loves going have him get ready for a he-lo it wasn't like okay
are they committed no they just made a little decision and and I learned that in that moment in time
when you're the guy in charge you better know what the hell your decisions yeah how your decision
impact the list because not I look wasn't hard work yes but was even worse than the fact
there was hard work we were not prepared now we had wasted it took us another six hours to get
everything deregged so we were not planning the way we should have been planning because we were
running around like idiots wasting time wasting time orders issued by subordinates should not
be mere repetition of those from higher authority with additions of their own new orders are
clearer and more satisfactory as a rule is desirable to keep contemplated operation secrets
long as possible and to confine knowledge they're of to new to a few staff officers and senior
commanders however upon entry into action no unit should be endowed as to what the commander wants to do
whenever knowledge of his intentions is necessary to ensure the cooperation of units engaged
the commander does not hesitate to disclose them to all concerned ignorance of his intentions may
often lead to inactivity on the port on the part of subordinates commanders intent is the actual
thing that you lead with it's the most important piece of information of all of it and when we
work with companies all the time there's this phrase that people know it's like if you ever hear
yourself or the people around you saying you don't need to know that just do your job man
the likely heard of success is basically zero check it is impossible to prescribe detailed
forms of orders to fit every tactical situation to attempt to do so would result in rigid form
and a routine style of expression which would not be in accord with the in accord with the
tactical requirements presented by the diverse situations that arise in war you don't know what's
going to happen that circles back i think to the first sentence you read and war is like you can't
script the answer you don't know what's going to happen to the extent practical however it has
been found efficient and convenient to classify combat orders according to their purpose and scope
of for some of these to adopt a standard sequence of composition this makes for the ease of understanding
a voice of omissions and ready reference yeah for sure that's where you get smiac which they
surprisingly don't cover they cover it in through perfuring but they don't cover it in this one um
but that's what they're talking about moral experiences shown that an order which can be
misunderstood will be misunderstood and an experience is shown that an order that which can be
misunderstood will be misunderstood and to obviate the designations of boundaries details of time
in place military terminology abbreviations designations of units and the like for details related to
these matters cfm 101 tack five and i wrote tack one which is the operational turns and graphics
which in the seal teams when the war kicked off we were not we didn't know what we were doing
like in terms of operational terms and graphics we just kind of drew arrows and like made it obvious
to the guys in the platoon like hey move there bad guys there we didn't we didn't realize that there
was an actual an actual language that was utilized throughout all i remember when i was trying to
convince people that we entire military oh it's through it's not just through our military it's all
NATO forces by the way because i remember having i would be like hey listen you know you need to put
this stuff in here there's this manual it's called the 101 tack i used it literally have the 101
tack five tack one i had a printed copy and i had it in my bathroom i had like one copy of my bathroom
and i would read through it you know because at some point i think i was probably
i think i was probably a platoon commander and i realized like oh everyone uses this but us
okay so i just started trying to learn terms and you know because we we don't have the basics
school in the seal teams we don't even have you know advanced infantry training like they have
in the army where you're gonna you you you go through platoon work but it's this isolated thing right
it's this isolated thing and luckily i did two-hour deployments where we worked in Marine Corps
extensively which was awesome and i got my taste and my indoctrination in how the rest of the
freaking military works because you got big navy you got the Marine Corps you got Marine Corps
air it was awesome i was so lucky that i got put in those situations and that's kind of where i
first would see these things i'd be like oh that's an interesting symbol but you know it was
pre-internet it wasn't like you could it wasn't like i could explore this idea but yeah i used to
have one of those next to my bit but i remember trying to i would be telling guys like hey the symbol
for the enemy actually isn't a red axe it's it's a diamond yeah and they'd be like well that's
you know no no one's gonna know what that means actually everyone in NATO forces knows what
that means the only people that don't know is the 16 guys in your seal platoon how about we get on
board with what everyone else in the military is doing uh check and now we get this is the last
section that's you know that's that's covered worth covering in every unit standing operating
procedures is prescribed by the commander wherever practicable this procedures covers those features
of the operation which lend themselves to a definite or standardized procedure without loss of
effect in this the adoption of such procedures will save time in the preparation and issuance of
orders minimize the chances for confusion and errors when under stress of combat and greatly
simplify and expedite the execution of operations in the field pretty state straightforward
and they close out talking about command posts which nothing they talk about signal communication
which you know this is very tactical level stuff like how you're gonna communicate
at during this time period with uh with message centers and advanced mess i mean it's it's like
the actual how they're doing it so it's not super applicable other than the stuff that we've
already covered about things being simple clear and concise I mean literally airplane messages
may be employed when distance intervening obstacles on the ground enough factors prevent use of
other means so that's what it's talking about it's it is actually talking to take a one step further
homing pigeons are a mean communication from front to rear when other means a shell so that's where
we're at i'm not gonna dive into all those things even though they are interesting and fascinating
and we can i'm sure learn something but we're not gonna dive too deep so that's that's kind of
where it wraps up and as i mentioned before the the 1944 version if if you look at that the the
other than the differences don't want to point it out there's an entire big section of air power
and and how you utilize it and then there's more granular tactics but again we're talking it's a
little bit homing pigeon fish you know not not readily applicable as leaders but the but the
leadership principles other than that one sentence that we pointed out other than that one sentence
it's almost it doesn't change and it's very similar to the true inferior which is very similar
to everything that we talk about all the time good leadership requires understanding people
good leadership means you have to care about your men you have to as the book says show a constant
concern for their comfort and welfare how about you make that a priority as a leader
you can't unnecessarily tax the endurance of the troops discipline is the main cohesive
force in a unit good morale cannot be improvised and and finally through offensive action
through offensive action the commander exercises his initiative preserve his freedom of action
and imposes his will on the enemy that's what we need to do is go on the offense on all fronts
don't wait for orders don't wait for the intel to be perfect
and if you have to be on the defense don't stay there look for that moment in time where you can
flip this scenario go on the offense take ground move forward and impose your will on the enemy
and yes that does translate to business and it certainly translates to what you do with your life
the it go on offense when you wake up in the morning that's what you do don't wait to react
you'll end up on the defense and you will eventually get taken out and I think that's all
it got for this one anything else crazy isn't it so good man somebody will reach out to me and
tell me who wrote this yeah that's what's gonna happen yeah somebody will reach out to me
somebody reached out to me I've got a track on the FM one-tack three I've got a master I think it's
a master gun resargent that was in the room who is a Vietnam guy yeah who's like oh you know it's
I I want to say his son I think his son reached out to me hey just kind of F or maybe it was one of the
guys who surf with him hey just FYI you know this guy was in the room we had a big part writing it
and you know if you want to ask him some questions I'm like a 100% unfortunately since Colonel
Pogue was probably 48 years old when he was doing this we won't get him in the room we don't need
him in the room no you know the timing of that when you start when you look at the timing one
there written I mean the takeaway you think about is you learn the hardest lessons from the most
difficult situations and you learn the hardest lessons from the most challenging environments with
your team and just think about how different the world was from 1920 to 1940 and then from 1941 to
1943 yeah and even if you looked at if you had a closed mind and you were looking at World War
one even if even if Colonel Pogue served in World War one what he took away from that was like
listen when I say charge there's just problems there's people that don't charge when I say
charge that's horrible he might have been infatically saying listen obedience is the most important
thing and there were some guys that were came back and you know when he said it at the first time
they were like hey I know you were a platoon commander but like I was over here and we actually
needed to think about what we were doing then after three years of war they just shut him down
and said hey the methods that you used in World War one sucked and if we would have trained our
troops to say hey boss that's a dumb idea we should not get up and charge this we should not go
and online at 0600 when the when the bugle sounds I'm not doing it and we should not do it
should not do this because we are going to lose 480 men when that bugle sounds and that's stupid
yeah because we're going to get nothing out of it and so that's what we want and that's what
this whole book begs for at least at least that at least the the the other guys in the room
beg for people think that's what they beg for use your initiative question your boss
if your boss can't explain why we're doing something then he's doing it wrong and a leader who
has subordinates put that pushback and you hey boss hey I don't get this I don't think this is right
that's the best leadership you can have I want my guys to go hey hang on I don't understand this
that's the best feedback I could possibly get which is them saying timeout I don't understand
we need to keep talking about this as opposed to one of two things the sort of this blind loyalty
whether just do whatever I say because there's no way I've got it all right or worse they think
this guy's an idiot and it's not even worth talking to him about it how disconnected those people are
you if you're a leader you want your people pushing back you want them asking you hard questions and
if you can't answer their questions you have more work to do yeah and and if you're smart
the ones that you will charge with answering those questions is those men themselves that are asking
them because if they say why are we coming in from the west you say well I thought it look good
please tell me why you don't think that's gonna work go do a better map study then I did by the
way because I got three other elements that I'm looking at but cool you come up with a better plan please
we're standing my for that so yeah these these principles of combat man these principles of
leadership they just don't change and it's so it's crazy that in 2019 right now you and I can
work with leaders you and I can meet leaders that are 100% aligned with Colonel Pogue yeah
there 100% aligned with Colonel Pogue they're attitude is listen hey what I want is people just
doing I tell them to do and God that sounds good doesn't it this sounds great hey if he's going
to just do what I told him to do here's the problem you're not that freaking smart you don't even know
what they should do how can you you're not moving from lines you're not seeing what's happening you're
not in that manufacturer you're not on that line you're not on that construction site you're not in
that in that meeting you're you're you're you're supposed to be looking up and out so how can you
know what's going on down there you don't let your people lead all right so speaking of going on
offense we kind of want to go on offense in our lives I think that's a smart thing to do
train you jitsu train you jitsu how many things you will be able to relate to jitsu is infinite
it's going to make you better leader it's going to make you a better boss it's going to make you better
follower it's going to make you a better dad make you better mom make you better human being
and any it hopefully get your kids doing it too it's going to help them even more get them in the game
so yeah jitsu if you need you jitsu ghee then get one from a place called origin origin main dot com
where we're not just up there selling geese what we're doing is up there bringing manufacturing
back to America that's what we're doing that's where belongs highest quality it supports this podcast
if you like this podcast go to origin and get something that supports the podcast but more important
like I said it supports the United States of America it supports the community up there that's what we're
doing so origin main you can get t-shirts you can get joggers which I personally don't wear but I
got to I'm going to say hoodies and jeans by the way jeans best jeans ever do you everywhere jeans
Dave I cannot remember the last time of origins and I know that's you just wear shorts all
the time when I lived in Virginia my criteria for shorts is it had to be below freezing so when
you get a gig in New York City in January and you're flying out there what are you wearing on the
point shorts really shorts at a national unfront t-shirt or a origin main t-shirt I might bring a
hoodie if I think it's going to be chilly check so a hundred percent you're wearing shorts
one hundred percent now here's here's one I look at a little caveat okay so 99 percent guess what I don't
have yet oh oh oh day I'll tell you what so that's that's I'm sorry you know I see what you're doing
so right now we have the heavyweight jeans and they're not they're not heavyweight they're not
heavy your weight then they're just normal jeans I got jeans right now that are lightweight jeans
and they're freaking the best things ever all right there is one thing that will push me off the
100 percent shorts that's the one yeah so that's my guess we got the material in um yeah it's you know
made in America woven to grown in America so so anyways yep jeans the I'm going to call I think the
name of the jeans is going to be May Kong 68 because if you don't know this the Vietnam
Seals my forefathers the people that gave me everything I have today in the May Kong Delta
of Vietnam the fatigues that we were that the seals were issued weren't durable enough for the
operations that they were doing so they wore blue jeans and so May Kong 68 jeans and also
we got boots we got origin boots they're awesome handmade in main check them out they're ready
for pre-order right now so order some and then we got supplements join Warfare Crill Oil Discipline
Discipline Go and then we got discipline ready to drink in a
which is gonna shock the world dude so you had some discipline go
pill before this podcast yes I was looking at you because I did too I was looking at you
and I was like we are connected I was like I hear what you're putting out man yeah so you get all
those good supplements you get mulking your warrior kid mulch strawberry chocolate mint whatever
the best stuff in the world yes no sugar you you would swear that it's sweetened with sugar
yep but it's not it's miraculous then then jocquait so good it's been a hot summer in San Diego
California and I've been burning through the jocquait in a can as all those things all good to go
and then we have another store called jocquist or where you can get rash guards t-shirts hats
hoodies whatever a bunch of stuff on there if you want to as echo troll says if you want to
represent while you're on the path he seems to think that gets the the message across he could be right
we know he might be right there's some evidence out there I saw on twitter the other day I posted
something that his wife said hey you got a birthday coming up is or anything you want and his answer was
we have a store it's called jocquist or and that was his answer to his wife said it's get out there
that is legit jocquist or it's called jocquist or that's what a echo usually says about that
subscribe to the podcast wherever you subscribe to podcasts leave a review so I can read your
review and be a entertained or be informed about your critique points so that's good
echo seems to think people don't subscribe so maybe it's hard to get people to subscribe to a podcast
because they think it fills up their phone or something I don't know but anyways if you don't
subscribe subscribe also check out the warrior kid podcast we are working always to try and get more
warrior kid podcast done because I know parents are mad at me when I don't release them yes because
they listen to the same podcast I think there's 23 of them right now there's 23 yeah I think there's 23
so I owe I try and put them out in three's for some reason I don't even know why I have one in the
bank I'll do two more sorry but check it out and then get some more your kid soap irishoaxman
st.com aiden he sold his thousandth package the other day thousand he's I think he's 13 now
but you know he's just getting after it so stay clean irishoaxmanst.com youtube channel
there's a youtube channel you can subscribe to you can see what Dave Burke looks like
you can see what I look like you can see us laughing and carrying on you can see our expressions
you can see what we look like when we're talking about kernel pogue my new arch enemy in the world
and you can see echoes completely overly enhanced videos where things are blowing up
it's the worst over use of special effects while they're being smashed while they're being smashed
things are exploding but a lot of people like them including echo psychological warfare if you need that
little a little shot in the brain if you need it you can get it from psychological war for an
iTunes MP3 platforms of all kinds flipside canvas dot com that's Dakota Myers company and he's making
shot in the arm that you can hang on the wall that's what it is a shot in the arm that you can hang
on the wall so you wake up every morning you can see something that says discipline equals freedom
I got some books the next book to come out is called leadership strategy and tactics field manual
you can preorder it right now if you want the first edition I was talking to my publisher the other day
and we're talking about what to do I said listen my people are there they want the first
edition and I want them to know that they got the first edition so we're going to do something
a lot of hundred percent sure yet but something to indicate at least that's the plan something to indicate
that you got that first edition so you get one chance to be on the first edition train
and then you're forever well I guess you could buy a used one for thousands of dollars off of
eBay if you missed the if you missed the initial first the distrained and you know what'll
let that happen so so leadership strategy and tactics really break down this stuff on a granular
level on how to apply it in specific situations that you're in preorder that we're now way
the way your kid there's three of them the most recent is where there's a will
you're daughter it seems to be mega on the path right yeah I mean you got to be so proud
dude she is dialed in man I'm I'm stoked and and we actually were talking about it the
other day she is she had a right a little letter all the kids in the started school they had
a right a little bio about themselves and kind of put it up in the wall to introduce themselves
to the class and inside that biography it was talking about things that are important to you
what do you think you like she used the phrase discipline she used the phrase ownership she said
good people don't make excuses I didn't even know she wrote it so I went to back to school
in that a couple weeks ago and I read it took a picture of it I'm like man this kid is so far ahead
of where I was at that age it's Uncle Jake's been a good influence in her life
Uncle Jake he has lessons for everyone but the problem is kids don't listen to their parents
like they listen Uncle Jake it's just the way it is my own kids don't listen to me as much
as they listen Uncle Jake that's just the way it is yeah their programmed to rebel against you
they have to otherwise they'll be living at home when they're 38 years old you don't want that you
want them to rebel against you but when they look outside for guidance you want them to find the
right guidance there's Uncle Jake standing at a rigid parade rest ready to put out the word
and if you're a parent you've now know and you're listening you now know you have those
resources available to you because if you're like most parents when your kid rebels you know
what most of us do we squash that which is the worst thing you can do personally first of all
a way further and now you can say hey look I understand and now you've got some other you got some
flanking maneuvers you can implement and have them because they're going to think they're
figuring it out on their own which in some ways they are but the reason they're even getting
there in the first place is because of you that's legit so way the warrior kid one two and three
the first one's called way the warrior kid the second one's marks mission the third one is
way the warrior kid through where there's a will got Mikey in the dragons how you gonna like just
had this when I was on a field on this guy had he had called in the last time and had a kid on the
way he was super freaked out and scared and he was like what should I do and you know it's like
okay here's a plan to go forward and then we called him yesterday called the guy back and he's like
yeah I got the kid and it's not as bad as I thought it was going to be in fact it's actually amazing
and I was like yeah those dragons on this dragon's on this big is you think they're going to be so
Mikey the dragon teacher kids to overcome teacher kids to stand up teach your kids to understand
what fear is and how they can actually react to it in a positive way Mikey in the dragons
get that book for kids that you know man it's another book I wish I had when I was little
uh this one goes for you to field manual how to get after it yes you need that manual that's another one
you what do you need to read to that a day read one page read one page and calibrate your brain
for the day that's what it is brain calibration calibrate your brain one page a day it'll take you
three minutes to read and you'll be calibrated and then of course there's the two books that I wrote
with my brother-lave babin extreme ownership and the dichotomy leadership talking about all the
things that we've been talking about today leadership how to lead what to look out for how to
overcome those obstacles we have Ashland front which is our leadership consultancy and what we do
is self-problems through leadership all of your problems are leadership problems that's what we do
Dave Burke got him got Andrew Paul who's on last time it's it's it's all of us that's what we do we do
do it 24 hours a day seven days a week we are working with companies and then on top of that we have
EF online which is it's interactive training online where you can learn the leadership principles that we talk about
look the books are are great the podcast is a great come to the master all these things are good none
of them work alone no you you you you want to give yourself as many advantages as possible
get on EF online dot com and learn these leadership principles deeper more granular
leadership is a skill it requires reps reps after reps after reps musters an awesome rep
this podcast is an awesome rep the books are awesome reps EF online gives you an unlimited number of
reps to go get and you need to get reps when you're learning leadership period speaking to the
master the next one we're doing is in Sydney Australia the other two sold out Chicago sold out
Denver sold out Sydney's going to sell out extreme ownership dot com if you want to come and when it
sells out there's no caveats Denver was sold out yeah no additional seat existed yeah and the
you get fire marshals like we it's not like we can bend the rules sorry we can't put people at risk
because they want to come to the master that's not the way it works so if you want to come
we're looking forward to coming down to Australia and getting after it with y'all and of course
we have EF overwatch now which is we're taking proven leaders from the spec ops community the combat aviation
community and we're placing them into companies that need to implement all these leadership principles
that we're talking about you don't need somebody that knows your industry what you need is someone
that knows how to lead they'll figure out your industry trust me they they know how to adapt and
overcome they will get there and get in the game if you want that go to eF overwatch dot com
and if you want to continue this discussion with us which I can promise you Dave and I spend a lot
of time together when we do spend time together or I shouldn't say we spend a lot of time together
when we spend time together because we're on the road a lot when we spend time together
that we talk about leadership all the time that's all we've got to talk about just talk about leadership
so if you want to talk about leadership well that's cool you can find us on the inner webs
Twitter Instagram do fast book Dave is at Dave Burke David is at David our Burke
and I am at jokka will like Dave any closing thoughts on this one yeah one parting thought
you're going through the books anytime I'm on the podcast which is completely awesome I get a
lot of hits on social media asking me about the eminently qualified human being a project
mm-hmm let me 74 174 one 74 podcast 174 let me tell you why you don't have that yet
is because I simply haven't done a good enough job getting it done it is close but I am not doing
my job we are getting very close that is coming out soon I will I will finish that project
and I will get that done what about the app we are we finished an awesome beta test thank you for
all of you out there that were dialed in on that we are close on that as well and what you're going to
see pretty soon is the app getting released and hopefully a digital version of that but you guys
are asking the questions the answer is I'm just not doing a good enough job it's coming soon
the interesting thing about and I know this went when I said this to you you were like what
and I was like hey well we'll get an app out you know we can build an app and release that
like soon as soon as possible and you're like well wouldn't it be easier to like just print a
publish a book and I'm like nope believe it or not it's a archaic system and we're not I don't
we're not 100% certain of how we're going to roll that out but the priority is speed right
this priority of getting the eminently qualified human being app and document book which we've also
well we've we've actually we actually see we had a little mission creep right little mission
creep because as I'm looking at it I'm thinking hey this is cool this is awesome but guess what there's
some protocols that we could give people to be grew so now we've got some protocols in there for
kind of standard operating procedures for things that go down in your life and they're really good
they I didn't have that big picture vision we started working on it but with that some folks can
ship you to that a lot of a lot of things are going into it it's certainly bigger but it ain't it's
it's actually where it needs to be yeah it's pretty close right now here it's close man
we got to just get out there okay cool so that's that and obviously once again
we would not even be sitting in this room at all if it were not for our brave and courageous
military men and women around the world so thanks to all of you that have served and those that are
currently serving thank you and the same goes to our police and law enforcement the firefighters out there
the paramedics the EMTs the dispatchers the correctional officers the border patrol the
secret service to all the first responders once again without you we cannot live the life
that we live here so thanks to all of you for what you're doing and to both your families
that are supporting that are sacrificing thanks to your families as well and to everyone else out there
life is a war right it is a war that's what it is at least at a minimum it's a metaphor for war
it's a fight and there are people out there and there are things out there that are trying to take
you down there is friction and there are obstacles and there is complacency
and you might think when I say life's war you like well not really but check this out listen to me
in this situation that you're in your life is at stake your life is actually at stake right now
what you do with your life is at stake you are fighting for your life every day the way that you
live it the mark that you're going to leave the legacy that you're going to leave the people
that you help the people that you help people that you can help move forward the people that are
weak that you can make stronger all that is going to come back to you that is your life and your
life is at stake right now every day almost as if you are at war so don't sit back and be on the
defense and allow life to happen to you don't do that instead go on the offense every day by getting up
and getting after it and until next time this is Dave Burke and Jocco out